Illusion's Game The Life and Teaching of Naropa by Chogyam Trungpa      
   We are going to discuss the life and teachings of Naropa fully
and completely, but not fully and completely in the way you would
like. We are going to discuss the outlines of Naropa's life and
his relationship with his guru Tilopa, and the twelve acts of
repentance he had to go through. We will also discuss his
Mahamudra experience. Mahamudra means "great symbol"; it is
connected with seeing the phenomena of the world as they are. We
will close our discussion with the six teachings of Naropa.
   I find it necessary to express my negativities about
presenting such potent - two hundred percent potent - teachings
to the people of the continent of North America, or to the West
altogether. Nobody here seems to be ready for this material at
all. People are relating with the starting point of practice, and
as far as we know, nobody in America has a complete understanding
of even the hinayana level of Buddhism. People have hardly any
understanding at all. They have a completely schizophrenic
attitude: they conceive of a divine, enlightened personality that
is opposed to their confused version of themselves.  As a result,
people regard themselves as abandoned people, completely bad
people. Or else they might have some hope, but that again is
based on some kind of spiritual pride that does not leave any
leeway for confusion at all. So we're hopeless. I'm afraid we're
hopeless.
   Isn't that a terrible, grim picture? Extremely grim. We are
hopeless, absolutely confused. We are so confused we do not even
know why we are here listening to this. We wonder why. We are
extremely confused, bewildered. What can we do about that? Let
alone talking about Naropa?
   Naropa achieved something. He found his way in the end. Once
he became a disciple of Tilopa, he was okay. But before he became
a disciple of Tilopa, he was confused, as much as we are.
   Spiritual practice is stepping out of the duality of me-ness
and my-ness as opposed to otherness, of who is me and who is not
me. But in addition to this we have the further confusion of
gurus laying their trips on us. Or, as they are called in
America, guh-ROOS. That particular species of human beings we
call guh-ROOS are mysterious. They save you. They tell you they
save you entirely, but on the other hand they tell you they still
have to work on themselves. We are confused. They are broke. It's
a hopeless situation.
   If we want to write essays about that for our Ph.D., we won't
be able to, because we are so confused. Even if we want to become
professional gurus, we won't be able to make head or tail of it.
Of course a lot of people decide to "make a journey to the East,"
to live with the natives: study with them, eat with them, and
shit with them, whether they use toilet tissue or not. They are
serious, obviously, and faithful in playing Burmese games,
Japanese games, and so on. They get right into it - sit with the
Orientals, eat with them, shit with them. We are getting back a
lot of anthropological messages about these "primitive"
societies. It seems that though they are primitive, their
spiritual understanding is much higher than ours. In any case,
these are the trips we have going on.
   I would like to call your attention to the following passage
from the Life of Naropa:

Once when *'Jig-med grags-pa (Abhayakirti)* [Naropa], with his
back to the sun, was studying the books on grammar, epistemology,
spiritual precepts, and logic, a terrifying shadow fell on them.
Looking round he saw behind him an old woman with thirty seven
ugly features: her eyes were red and deep-hollowed; her hair was
fox-coloured and dishevelled; her forehead large and protruding;
her face had many wrinkles and was shrivelled up; her ears were
long and lumpy; her nose was twisted and inflamed; she had a
yellow beard streaked with white; her mouth was distorted and
gaping; her teeth were turned in and decayed; her tongue made
chewing movements and moistened her lips; she made sucking noises
and licked her lips; she whistled when she yawned; she was
weeping and tears ran down her cheeks; she was shivering and
panting for breath; her complexion was darkish blue; her skin was
rough and thick; her body bent and askew; her neck curved; she
was hump-backed; and, being lame, she supported herself on a
stick. She said to Naropa: "What are you looking into?"
   "I study the books on grammar, epistemology, spiritual
precepts, and logic," he replied.
   "Do you understand them?"
   "Yes."
   "Do you understand the words or the sense?"
   "The words."
The old woman was delighted, rocked with laughter, and began to
dance, waving her stick in the air. Thinking that she might feel
still happier, Naropa added: "I also understand the sense." But
then the woman began to weep and tremble and she threw her stick
down.
   "How is it that you were happy when I said that I understood
the words, but became miserable when I added that I also
understood the sense?"
   "I felt happy because you, a great scholar, did not lie and
frankly admitted that you only understood the words. But I felt
sad when you told a lie by stating that you understood the sense,
which you do not."
   "Who, then, understands the sense?"
   "My brother."
   "Introduce me to him, wherever he may be."
   "Go yourself, pay your respects to him, and beg him that you
may come to grasp the sense."
   With these words, the old woman disappeared like a rainbow in
the sky. [The Life and Teaching of Naropa, trans. Herbert V.
Guenther (Boston & London:Shambala Publications, 1986), pp. 24-
25]

Naropa was studying epistemology, logic, philosophy, and grammar.
That's where we are at. Of course everybody is also extremely
involved with art now. Everybody is trying to work out their
artistic self-expression. They might hear the teachings of Naropa
in connection with art; they might see it in terms of "the art of
the Tibetan teachings." Then there is also logic, the question of
how the teachings relate with each other, how not and how so. We
are involved with logic as well. It could be said that everybody
here is in the first stage of Naropa's experience, involved in
philosophy and art, as well as epistemology. We are on the same
level Naropa was experiencing before enlightenment. We want an
answer; we want definitions. We want a fixed situation rather
than something fluid. We feel that concepts are very badly
needed.
   In this seminar you are not going to be able to relate with
concepts. You're not going to get something out of studying
logic, epistemology, grammar, and philosophy - which were a
failure for Naropa as well. That is why he had to go through
twelve stages of punishment, because of his concepts. We are
going to go through the same journey that Naropa went through; we
are going to take a tour of Naropa's agony. In some ways, it is
going to be like Disneyland. You go through some tunnel, and you
come out; you're delivered to somewhere else. You see exciting
things and you come out on the other end. But in this case, it is
related with psychological problems. It is going to be more
deathening, more hellish or more heavenish. We start at Naropa's
starting point of searching for goodness and trying to achieve
divinity.
II: Genuine Madness and Pop Art
   And he proceeded onwards in an Eastern direction.
   These were the visions he had:
   When he had come to a narrow footpath that wound between rocks
and a river, he found a leper woman without hands and feet
blocking his path.
   "Do not block the way, step aside."
   "I cannot move. Go around if you are not in a hurry, but if
you are, jump over me."
   Although he was full of compassion, he closed his nose in
disgust and leaped over her. The leper woman rose in the air in a
rainbow and said:
     Listen Abhayakirti:
     The Ultimate in which all become the same
     Is free of habit-forming thought and
             limitations.
     How, if still fettered by them,
     Can you hope to find the Guru?
   At this the woman, the rocks, and the path all vanished and
Naropa fell into a swoon on a sandy plateau. When he recovered
consciousness he thought: "I did not recognize this to be the
Guru, now I shall ask anyone I meet for instruction." Then he got
up and went on his way praying.
   On a narrow road he met a stinking bitch crawling with vermin.
He closed his nose and jumped over the animal, which then
appeared in the sky in a rainbow halo and said:
     All living beings by nature are one's parents.
     How will you find the Guru, if
     Without developing compassion
     On the Mahayana path
     You seek in the wrong direction?
     How will you find the guru to accept you
     When you look down on others?
   After these words the bitch and the rocks disappeared and
Naropa again swooned on a sandy plateau.
   When he came to, he resumed his prayers and his journey, and
met a man carrying a load.
   "Have you seen the venerable Tilopa?"
   "I have not seen him. However, you will find behind this
mountain a man playing tricks on his parents. Ask him."
   When he had crossed the mountain, he found the man, who said:
   "I have seen him, but before I tell you, help me to turn my
parents' head."
   But Abhayakirti thought: "Even if I should not find the
venerable Tilopa, I cannot associate with a scoundrel, because I
am a prince, a Bhikshu, and a scholar. If I seek the Guru I will
do so in a respectable way according to the dharma."
   Everything happened as before, the man receded into the centre
of a rainbow halo and said:
     How will you find the Guru, if
     In this doctrine of Great Compassion
     You do not crack the skull of egotism
     With the mallet of non-Pure-Egoness and
         nothingness?
   The man disappeared like a rainbow and Naropa fell senseless
to the ground. When he woke up there was nothing and he walked on
praying as he went.
   Beyond another mountain he found a man who was tearing the
intestines out of a human corpse and cutting them up. Asked
whether he had seen Tilopa, he answered:
   "Yes, but before I show him to you, help me to cut up the
intestines of this decayed corpse."
   Since Naropa did not do so, the man moved away into the centre
of a rainbow -coloured light and said:
     How will you find the Guru, if
     You cut not Samsara's ties
     With the unoriginatedness of the Ultimate
     In its realm on non-reference?
   And the man disappeared like a rainbow.
   When Naropa had recovered from his swoon and gone on his way
praying, he found on the bank of a river a rascal who had opened
the stomach of a live man and was washing it with warm water.
When he asked him whether he had seen the venerable Tilopa, he
replied:
   "Yes, but before I show him, help me."
   Again Naropa refused, and the man appearing in a centre of
light in the sky said:
     How will you find the Guru, if
     With the water of profound instruction
     You cleanse not Samsara, which by nature [is]
          free
     Yet represents the dirt of habit-forming
          thoughts?
   And the man disappeared in the sky.
   After having woken from his swoon Naropa prayed and journeyed
on until he came to the city of a great king, whom he asked
whether he had seen Tilopa. The king replied:
   "I have seen him, but marry my daughter before I show him to
you."
   Having taken her, he seemed to spend a long time. Then the
king, not wishing to let him go, took back the girl and the dowry
and left the room. Not recognizing this as a magic spell, but
thinking that he would have to employ force with the aid the
*bDe-mchog rtsa-rgyud, Abhhidhana-uttaratantra*, he heard a voice
say:
     Are you not deceived by a magic show?
     How then will you find the Guru
     If through desire and dislike you fall
     Into the three forms of evil life?
   And the whole kingdom disappeared.
   When Naropa came to, he travelled in prayer until he met a
dark man with a pack of hounds, a bow and arrows.
   "Have you seen Tilopa?"
   "Yes."
   "Show him to me."
   "Take this bow and arrow and kill that deer."
   When Naropa refused, the man said:
     A hunter, I have drawn the arrow
     Of the phantom body which from desires is
          free
     In the bow, of radiant light the essence:
     I shall kill the fleeting deer of this and that,
     On the mountain of the body believing in
          an I.
     Tomorrow I go fishing in the lake.
   So saying, he disappeared.
   When Naropa had recovered he continued prayerfully in search
of the Guru and came to the shore of a lake full of fish. Nearby
two old people were ploughing a field, killing and eating the
insects they found in the furrows.
   "Have you seen Tilopa?"
   "He stayed with us, but before I show him to you - hallo,
wife, come and get this Bhikshu something to eat."
   The old woman took some fish and frogs from her net and cooked
them alive. When she invited Naropa to eat, he said: "Since I am
a Bhikshu I no longer have an evening meal, and besides that I do
not eat meat." Thinking, "I must have violated the doctrine of
the Buddha to be asked to dine by an old woman who cooks fish and
frogs alive," he sat there miserably. Then the old man came up
with an ox on his shoulders and asked his wife: "Have you
prepared some food for the Bhikshu?" She replied: "He seems to be
stupid; I cooked some food, but he said that he did not want to
eat."
   Then the old man threw the pan into the fire while fish and
frogs flew up into the sky. He said:
     Fettered by habit-forming thoughts, 'tis hard
          to find the Guru.
     How will you find the Guru if you eat not
     This fish of habit-forming thoughts, but hanker
     After pleasures (which enhance the sense of ego)?
     Tomorrow I will kill my parents.
   He then disappeared.
   After his recovery Naropa came upon a man who had impaled his
father on a stake, put his mother into a dungeon, and was about
to kill them. They cried loudly: "Oh son, do not be so cruel."
Although Naropa was revolted at the sight, he asked the man
whether he had seen Tilopa, and was answered: "Help me to kill
the parents who have brought me misfortune and I will then show
you Tilopa."
   But since Naropa felt compassion for the man's parents, he did
not make friends with this murderer. Then with the words:
     You will find it hard to find the Guru
     If you do not kill the three poisons that derive
     From your parents, the dichotomy of this and
         that.
     Tomorrow I will go and beg.
the man disappeared.
   When Naropa had recovered from his swoon and gone on in
prayer, he came to a hermitage. One of the inmates recognized him
as Abhayakirti and asked: "Why have you come? Is it to meet us?"
   "I am merely a Ku-su-li-pa, there is no need for a reception."
   The hermit, however, did not heed his words and received him
with due honours. Asked for the reason for his coming, Naropa
said: "I seek Tilopa. Have you seen him?"
   "You will find that your search has come to an end. Inside is
a beggar who claims to be Tilopa."
   Naropa found him within sitting by the fire and frying live
fish. When the hermits saw this, they began angrily to beat the
beggar, who asked: "Don't you like what I do?"
   "How can we when evil is done in a hermitage?"
   The beggar snapped his fingers, said "Lohivagaja," and the
fish returned to the lake. Naropa, realizing that this man must
be Tilopa, folded his hands and begged for instruction. The Guru
passed him a handful of lice, saying:
     If you would kill the misery of habit-forming
          thoughts
     And ingrained tendencies on the endless path
     To the ultimate nature of all beings,
     First you must kill (these lice).
   But when Naropa was unable to do so, the man disappeared with
the words:
     You will find it hard to find the Guru
     If you kill not the louse of habit-forming
          thoughts,
     Self-originated and self-destructive.
     Tomorrow I will visit a freak show.
   Dejectedly Naropa got up and continued his search. Coming to a
wide plain, he found many one-eyed people. a blind man with
sight, an earless one who could hear, a man without a tongue
speaking, a lame man running about, and a corpse gently fanning
itself. When Naropa asked them if they had seen Tilopa, they
declared:
   "We haven't seen him or anyone else. If you really want to
find him, do as follows:
     "Out of confidence, devotion, and certainty,
         become
     A worthy vessel, a disciple with the courage
         of conviction.
     Cling to the spirituality of a Teacher in the
         spiritual fold,
     Wield the razor of intuitive understanding as
         the viewpoint,
     Ride the horse of bliss and radiance as the
         method of attention,
     Free yourself from the bonds of this and that
         as the way of conduct.
     Then shines the sun of self-lustre which
         understands
     One-eyedness as the quality of many,
     Blindness as seeing without seeing a thing,
     Deafness as hearing without hearing a thing,
     Muteness as speaking without saying
         something,
     Lameness as moving without being hurried,
     Death's immobility as the breeze of the
         Unoriginated (like air moved by a fan).
In this way the symbols of Mahamudra were pointed out, whereafter
everything disappeared."
   In the teachings proclaimed by the Kagyu lineage, we find a
lot of processes that have to be gone through and understandings
that have to be developed. This is by no means easy. It is
extremely difficult to understand that there is some basic
confusion we have created, and that within that confusion there
is also some kind of madness. Strangely enough, the madness is
not confused. There is sanity in the confusion and the madness.
Confusion in dealing with the situation of life a fixed thing
seems to be a sane approach. So what seems to be insane is
enlightenment.
   Naropa's approach to his successive discoveries in his visions
- or whatever they are, phantoms that he sees - is connected with
his seeming sanity. Because Naropa was born a prince and was
educated and became a professor at Nalanda University, he regards
himself as a sensible person, an educated, sensible person,
someone highly respected. But this sensible quality, this sanity
of his, turns out to be a very clumsy way of relating with the
teachings of Tilopa - the teachings of the Kagyu lineage. Because
he was not enough of a freak, because he was not insane enough,
he couldn't relate with them at all.
   Insanity in this case is giving up logical arguments, giving
up concept. Things as they are conceptualized are not things as
they are. We have to try to see within the conceptualized
situation, according to which fire is hot and the sky is blue.
Maybe the sky is green; maybe fire is cold. There's that
possibility, always.
   When we hear someone say such a thing we become extremely
perplexed and annoyed. We think: "Of course fire is hot; fire is
not cold. Of course the sky is blue, not green. That's nonsense!
I'm not going to have anything to do with that kind of nonsense.
I'm going to stick to my sensible outlook. The sky is blue and
fire is hot; that gives me a sense of security, satisfaction, and
sanity. If fire is hot, I'm quite happy with it. If the sky is
blue, I'm also happy with that. I don't want any interference
with my regular line of thought."
   On the other hand, the idea of insanity we are looking into
here does not mean that you should drop your ordinary sanity and
be swinging and hip, to use current conventional terms. I am not
saying you should change your entire perspective around, that
instead of being clean, you should be dirty because that's a more
hip way to behave, or that you should adopt any of the rest of
that kind of approach. That is not quite the point. People might
think that Naropa's hang-up was that he was not hip enough to
experience Tilopa's doctrine or teaching. That is not quite so.
There is a problem in communicating this situation to late-
twentieth-century-Americans. We have an enormous problem there.
   One of the biggest problems we face is the popularity of
Tibetan Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhist works of art. Everything is
regarded as fabulous, a fantastic display. "It is so fantastic!
It matches what I saw in my acid trip! It's fabulous!" Looking at
it with this attitude, the style of Naropa and his hang-ups and
the style of Tilopa and his teachings might be seen as pop art,
with people just thinking, "It's a far-out thing." Tibetan
wrathful deities in paintings and thangkas demonstrate a crazy-
wisdom quality, which is pop art from the point of view of those
who regard connecting with the teachings as a hip thing to do.
   There are problems with that. Take the example of going into
retreat in a cabin in the woods under severe conditions. That
should not be regarded as an alternative form of luxury. The
retreat cabin you meditate in has nothing to do with your
reaction against your central-heated home or your penthouse. It
has nothing to do with that at all. It just provides another life
situation, and that's all. Meditating in retreat in a cabin in
the remote countryside is not pop art. The same is true for
visualizing all kinds of deities and mandalas as some American
students have been instructed to do. The first impact on them
seems to be: "At last I am able to relate with those beautiful,
colorful, groovy things that are in the Tibetan thangkas. At last
I have managed to get to relate with that. At last the dream
comes true, and I am able to live real pop art. I'm not only
thinking of them or painting them; by visualizing, I'm becoming
part of them. It's an exciting, outlandish thing to do." It's a
kind of pop art.
   To come back to Naropa, this seems to be precisely Naropa's
hang-up. He had so much fascination about Tilopa and receiving
the tantric teachings from him that he also looked at it as the
next groovy thing to do. And he walked and walked and walked and
went on and on. But at each point he got hit because he regarded
the whole thing as pop art according to the conception of that
particular age.  And it is possible that we ourselves might
experience the same kind of situation as well, if we impulsively
regard the whole thing as pop art - as colorful, inspiring, and,
at the same time, artistic. As long as we regard it as something
we might tune into at any time, whenever we like, thinking that
as soon as we do, it will relieve us from all our pressures and
tensions - as long as we regard it as another escape, another
sidetrack - being hit like Naropa could happen to us too.
   All the successive situations that Naropa went through in
experiencing Tilopa's different qualities - the leper woman, the
decaying dog, the criminal, and so on - involve a psychological
expectation that is an extremely confused one. And we try to make
pictures out of that psychological confusion. And the only kind
of picture we can come up with is a beautiful, colorful, artistic
kind of picture with a dreamy quality connected with possibly
achieving a goal, an aim and object. In other words, our picture
is connected with the idea of reaching heaven. That seems to be
the problem - because such an idea has nothing to do with truth
or reality as the Kagyu lineage speaks of it, nothing to do with
the mahamudra experience. Such ideas are not real truth. Bliss is
not the real truth. Meditative absorption is not the real truth.
It seems the real truth is naked and direct, uncolored, unshaded,
and not manufactured - the simple existence of a solitary rock -
which seems to be extremely boring to experience. We might think,
"If I'm not going to get any excitement or understanding out of
experiencing such a truth, what the hell am I getting into this
trip for?"
   And that seems to be our problem. When we try to get into
something, we expect a lot - entertainment, precision, an answer,
reassurance, clarity. We expect all kinds of things. By expecting
clarity, we are confusing the whole issue; we are producing
confusion. By expecting reassurance, by expecting to be reassured
that the trip we are getting into is right, we are creating more
paranoia. Paranoia and reassurance speak the same language;
they're on the same level; they're always interdependent. By
looking for precise understanding, we are arousing fear of
confusion, we are making more confusion constantly. When we think
of bliss, we are making a reference point out of this blissful
state, therefore we are arousing fear of pain; we are creating
further pain under the pretense of trying to create bliss. These
are the things that Naropa experienced in his search for Tilopa.
And that is also what we are experiencing. That is what generally
happens. We try to grasp every situation of confusion as fast as
possible; we grasp it, dwell on it, make it into a mother, suck
as much milk as possible out of it, dwell further on it, bounce
on it.
   In a sense it is beautiful that we can relate to Naropa's
confusion as our confusion. It is extremely beautiful that we can
relate with him. We can also relate with his understanding. We
ourselves could become like Naropa, the father of the Kagyu
lineage. This whole room we are in together is filled with
potential Naropas, because the whole room is filled with the
potentiality of Naropa's confusion. It is quite beautiful.
   It seems that in relation to the whole thing we are talking
about, Naropa's attainment of enlightenment is not that
important. It is Naropa's confusion that is important for us as
ordinary people. Connecting with that provides a basis for
progress, for a step toward understanding. So let us relate with
his story that way. All the hang-ups that Naropa experienced, all
his imaginations - his visual mind, his auditory mind as he
experienced them - are part of our makeup as well. And there are
possibilities of stepping out of that confusion.
STUDENT: I am confused by some of the things Naropa was asked to
do. Seemingly there shouldn't be any contradiction between a
guru's teaching and the Buddha's teaching. And yet in the visions
there seem to be a lot of them. For example, asking him to kill
lice seems to be a direct contradiction. On the one hand, his
"sane," sensible mind is saying, "Don't do this"; on the other,
it is saying, "Do this." It seems either way the poor guy turns,
he gets cut down. What would have happened if he had killed the
lice? He still would have been in violation, so to speak.
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Probably at that moment there was no such thing
as lice to be killed. Physically there may have been no lice at
all.
S: Still, you're killing, whether it's only a projection or not.
If you kill somebody in a dream, isn't that the same as actually
carrying out the action?
TR: It's quite different. You're dealing with your own
projections in a dream. If you dreamed that you became a
millionaire, you wouldn't actually become a millionaire.
S: It still sounds suicidal. Even if the lice aren't there,
something exists.
TR: Yes, something exists, which is your projections, your dogma,
your resistance, which has to be killed. Of course there is
something there; not only something, but *the* thing is there.
S: If it's killed, you're still left a killer, aren't you?
TR: Attaining enlightenment could be described as killing ego.
S: It sounds suicidal and hence not complete.
TR: It is complete. When you attain enlightenment, the killer of
ego is so efficient and precise that ego cannot arise again at
all, not even a memory of it. It does a very fine job. When we
kill somebody in the literal sense, we cannot kill them
completely. We can't kill their name, we can't kill their
relatives - something is left. But in killing ego in connection
with the attainment of enlightenment, we do a complete job - the
name and the concept are killed as well.
S: Sometimes you talk about meditation in terms of making friends
with yourself. Is this what you call making friends with
yourself?
TR: What self?
S: It just doesn't seem very friendly.
TR: It is the act of a friend, an act of compassion. Ego is
murdered out of compassion, out of love. Usually murder takes
place out of hate. It is because the murder of the ego is done
out of compassion that, quite surprisingly, it is complete. The
murder of ego is a complete murder, in contrast to the other
kind.
S: Putting it out of its misery.
TR: Not quite. Respecting the misery.
STUDENT: Rinpoche, it sounds as though you're saying we have to
go beyond, transcend ego, before we even have the right to get
into tantra.
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Go beyond? I think we have to, yes. It seems
that in the current situation in America, we are in the stage of
being haunted by the lady with the thirty-seven ugly marks as
Naropa was. We haven't developed to the next stages of Naropa's
search for Tilopa at all yet. We have just stayed at the
beginning. At the moment we seem to be just discovering the
difference between the words and the sense. The discovery of the
word seems to be the sense, but that is not quite the case.
Discovering the words was what Naropa was doing reading that
particular book with his back to the sun. Reading a book on
logic. We seem to be at that level. So we have a long way to go.
STUDENT: Is each one of these situations that Naropa goes through
a step in developing out of his confusion?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Each situation has a different symbolism
related with that, yes.
STUDENT: Who is arranging all these visions?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Nobody. It just seems to happen that way.
STUDENT: Rinpoche, could you say more about the madness of
insanity you were talking about?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: It is madness beyond the conceptualized point
of view of ego. For example, if you are in an outrageous state of
hatred and trying to relate with somebody as an object of that
hatred, if that person doesn't communicate back to you in terms
of hate, you might think he is a mad person. You think he is mad
because he doesn't fight you back. As far as you are concerned,
that person his mad, because he has lost his perspective of
aggression and passion as it should be from the point of view ...
S: From the point of view of samsara?
TR: Yes. From the point of view of samsara, Buddha is mad.
There's a story in the Indian scriptures that in a particular
country, a soothsayer predicted to the king that there would be
seven days of rain containing a substance that would make people
mad. Whoever drank the water would go mad. So his whole kingdom
was going to go mad. Hearing this prediction, the king collected
gallons and gallons of water for his private use to keep himself
from going mad. Then the rain fell and everyone else went mad.
Then they all began accusing the king of being mad. Finally he
gave in and decided to drink the water of madness in order to fit
in with the rest of the kingdom. He couldn't be bothered keeping
himself "insane."
STUDENT: In the different visions that Naropa has, he doesn't
want to do the things he's asked to do, presumably because he
thinks they're immoral. So are we to conclude from this that
morality and the moral law are purely something that operates in
the ego realm, and that an enlightened person in the position of
Tilopa follows no moral law?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Tilopa does follow the moral law in its
absolute perfection.
S: What does that mean?
TR: The conventional moral law purely has to do with relating
with you conscience rather than dealing with situations. Dealing
with situations, with what is right and what is wrong in
situations, is Tilopa's fashion. If you relate with a situation
in terms of your conscience or your perceptions, it means you
don't even have any idea of understanding the situation. This
seems to be what happens in general in life. You have to try to
understand situations as precisely as possible, but there are
situations that you regard as bad to understand. For example, if
you had to investigate a murder case, you might want to
dissociate yourself from the case altogether, thinking, "I don't
want to be involved with murder at all." Then you have no way at
all of understanding how and why one person murdered the other.
You could let yourself become involved with that murder case and
try to understand the rightness and wrongness of what was done as
scientifically as possible. You could look into the situation in
terms of cause and effect and gain some understanding of it. But
on the other hand, if you think, "Becoming involved with murder
will just get me in contact with bad vibrations, so I'll have
nothing to do with that," then you seal yourself off completely.
   That is exactly the same thing that seems to be happening in
present-day society. Particularly the young generation doesn't
want to have anything to do with society - let alone understand
it - because it's something ugly, something terrible. This
creates tremendous confusion and conflict. Whereas if people were
to get into society and try to understand what is wrong, there
might be some intelligence coming out of that. Complete rejection
without discrimination seems to be the problem.
STUDENT: So should we register to vote?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Why not? Add your energies to the country's.
STUDENT: Don't you think there have been some things we've all
learned from that rejection you were just talking about?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Yes and no - both. A lot of people have
rejected Christianity and gone to Hinduism or Buddhism. They feel
that they no longer have any associations with Christianity at
all. Then later - from the point of view of aliens - they begin
to realize that Christianity speaks some kind of profound truth.
They only see that from the point of view of aliens, having gone
away. They begin to appreciate the culture they were brought up
in. Finally they become the best Christians, people with much
more understanding of Christianity than ordinary Christians.
   You can't reject your history. You can't say that your hair is
black if it is blond. You have to accept your history. Those
wanting to imitate Oriental culture might go so far as to become
100 percent Hindu or 100 percent Japanese, even to the point of
undergoing plastic surgery. But somehow denying your existence -
your body, your makeup, your psychological approach - does not
help. In fact, it brings more problems. You have to be what you
are. You have to relate to your country, its politics, its
culture. That is extremely important, since you cannot become
someone else. And it is such a blessing.
   If we could become someone else, or halfway someone else, that
would provide us with a tremendous number of sidetracks and
possibilities for escape. We should be thankful that we have a
body, a culture, a race, and a country that is honestly ours, and
we should relate with those. We can't reject all that. That
represents our relationship to the earth as a whole, our national
karma, and all the rest of it.  That seems to be the starting
point for attaining enlightenment, becoming a buddha, an American
buddha.
STUDENT: Rinpoche, Naropa's experiences seem to be all symbols.
Can't we go too far in taking everything as a symbol? How do we
prevent ourselves from going too far in that sense?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Naropa in a sense failed in this way because he
didn't have the chance of relating with Tilopa immediately. For
that very reason, he got too much involved in symbolism. The same
could apply to us as well. It's not so much a matter of too much
symbolism as of too much fascination with the context. For
example, you could be completely fooled by a salesman if you're
in a shop. The salesman might say, "This is such beautiful
material. This is such a functional item. It's of good quality,
yet cheap. It's so beautiful; you'll be getting your money's
worth." At that point, you can't deny that what the salesman is
telling you is the truth. He's absolutely telling the truth. The
thing he's trying to sell you does have those good qualities. But
if you ended up buying it on the basis of fascination, you might
be disappointed afterward, because somehow afterward you're not
relating with it on the same level of fascination anymore. You
might find at that point that your fascination is rejected by the
experience you had in your first glimpse before the salesman
began to fascinate you. The whole thing is based on fascination.
S: What I was asking about was if there was a point where one has
gone too far in taking experiences as symbolic, a point where the
whole thing's a projection.
TR: Yes that is related with fascination, not being able to
relate with yourself. One has to relate to one's whole being
rather than just purely dealing with accuracy and beautiful
display.
STUDENT: In the Buddhist tradition, after the death of the ego,
is there any self left? Does self exist?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: That's a very old question. You see, in order
to have the continuity of something, you have to have somebody
constantly watching this continuity happening. If you have ego
continuing, you also have to have the observer observing that ego
is continuing. This is because the whole thing is based on a
mirage. If there's no watcher, there's no mirage. If there's a
watcher to acknowledge that the mirage exists, there will be a
mirage. After enlightenment, there's no watcher anymore;
therefore the watcher's object does not exist anymore.
S: Does the being exist after that?
TR: The being is self-consciousness, making sure you are there.
And you don't watch yourself being there anymore. It's not a
question of whether being exists or does not exist. If you see
being as not existing, then you have to watch that, make sure
that being does not exist anymore, which is continuing the being
anyhow.
S: So in other words, there is a death or an identity after ego
death, and the death of ego is the death of confusion about it?
TR: Well, the watcher dissolves so we cannot say yes or no
either. It's beyond remark.
STUDENT: Regarding relating with our culture, Alan Watts says
that one thing that has given our culture a great neurosis is
seeing things in terms of the conflict between good and evil
rather than just seeing them as they are. This makes me want to
ask you about the Buddhist view of what the devil is or the black
magician. A lot of our cultural history that is still going on
has to do with black magic.
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Defining good and evil or the devil and black
magic is very much related to our topic of sanity and insanity,
and the whole subject of meditation is related with that as well.
The result of any situation that is connected with self-
enrichment, or an attempt at self-perpetuation, either in an ego-
centered way or a very innocent and kind way - the result of
anything aimed at enriching the ego - is destruction, complete
confusion, perpetual confusion. There is no killing of ego here.
From a black magician's point of view, you don't kill somebody's
ego, you kill somebody's non-ego.
S: How can you do that?
TR: You just do it out of conviction, belief. In other words you
can't destroy it completely, but you put a smear of ink over it,
and you don't look again; you just hope for the best - that you
killed it. The whole thing is connected with spiritual
materialism, which I talk so much about. Spiritual materialism
means enriching the ego. Anything related with spiritual
materialism is a step toward the black magician, if I may say so.
It could be a step toward the black magician or the white
magician actually, but in any case toward the magician, toward
gaining power. If you want to help your friend, you just do it.
If you want to destroy your enemy, you just do it. In that way,
you have the potential of the black magician, even if you are
regarded as a kind person who is at the same time a powerful
person.
   The whole question is how much the relationship with ego
becomes a central theme in spiritual practice. When it does, you
get good and bad, what is and what is not, which is called
duality in Buddhist terminology. The whole thing of who you are
is purely related with the watcher. You can't measure anything
without a starting point. And you can't count unless you can
start from zero. So zero is you, ego. You start from there and
you build your number series, you build your measurement system,
you build your relationships. Once you do that, you get an
overwhelming sense of good and kind or bad and destructive. You
build all kinds of things based on that basic reference point. It
seems that the whole thing is based on how much you are involved
with ego. That seems to be the basis for defining goodness or
wickedness.
STUDENT: What are the methods in your way for killing the ego?
What methods would you use in our society?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: It has nothing to do wit society at all. It is
purely a matter of dealing with one's psychological state of
being. Sociological styles don't make any difference in this
regard. Sociological approaches or styles are just a photograph.
The direct way of dealing with ourselves here is getting into the
nitty gritty of our whole existence and dealing with excruciating
pain and excruciating pleasure as directly as possible. That way
we begin to realize that pain and pleasure exist in an expansive,
joyful way. So we don't have to nurse anything.
STUDENT: Rinpoche, you spoke of compassion as being bad medicine
for ego. Yet Naropa violates our definition of compassion in a
number of ways.
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: There are two different types of compassion.
There is actual compassion, direct compassion, absolute
compassion. Then there is the other kind of compassion that Mr.
Gurdjieff calls idiot compassion, which is compassion with
neurosis, a slimy way of trying to fulfill your desire secretly.
This is your aim, but you give the appearance of being generous
and impersonal.
S: What is absolute compassion?
TR: Absolute compassion is seeing the situation as it is,
directly and thoroughly. If you have to be tough, you just do it.
In other words, idiot compassion contains a sort of opium -
constantly trying to be good and kind - and absolute compassion
is more literal, more discriminating, and more definite. You are
willing to hurt somebody, even though you do not want to hurt
that person; but in order to wake that person up, you might have
to hurt him or her, you might have to inflict pain.
   That is precisely why, in the Buddhist tradition, we don't
start with the teaching of compassion, the mahayana, but we start
with teaching of the lesser vehicle, the hinayana. In the
hinayana you try to get yourself together. Then you start
applying your compassion after that, having gotten yourself
together, having built the foundation. You can't just work on the
level of absolute compassion right from the beginning. You have
to develop toward it.
STUDENT: I think you said earlier that one of the obstacles to
developing in this way is the need for reassurance. How does one
get away from the need for reassurance?
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Acknowledge needing reassurance, acknowledge it
as an effigy that looks in only one direction and does not look
around. An effigy with one face, possibly only one eye. Doesn't
see around, doesn't see the whole situation. Do you see what I
mean?
S: The effigy only looks one way. Is this the person who needs
reassurance?
TR: Yes, because that reassurance has to be attached to that one
situation. Whenever you need reassurance, that means you have a
fixed idea of what ought to be. And because of that you fix your
vision on one situation, one particular thing. And those
situations that are not being observed because of the point of
view of needing reassurance, that we are not looking at, are a
source of paranoia. We wish we could cover the whole ground, but
since we can't to that physiologically, we have to try to stick
to that one thing as much as we can. So the need for reassurance
has only one eye.
S: And the way to get beyond that one-eyed vision?
TR: Develop more eyes, rather than just a unidirectional radar
system. You don't have to fix your eye on one thing. You can have
panoramic vision, vision all around at once.
STUDENT: Something like a fish-eye lens,
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Something like that, but even that has a camera
behind it.