(The mind) is frivolous and difficult to control, alighting on whatever it pleases. It is good to tame the mind. A tamed mind brings happiness.	1
A beautiful county is a dream-like illusion.	1
A Trump Administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded.	0
Absorbed in superconscious states (jhanas), recollected, and ever exerting themselves, those wise ones (dhiras) realize Nirvana, the unsurpassed security	1
All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Irans treatment of our ten captured sailors.	0
America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration.	0
As a dweller in the mountains looks down on those who live in the valley, so the spiritually mature person, the hero free from sorrow, having driven out unmindfulness by means of mindfulness, ascends to the Palace of Wisdom and looks down at the sorrowful, spiritually immature multitude (below).	1
As a fish threshes from side to side when taken from one abode to another and cast on dry land, so the mind throbs and vibrates (with the strain) as it abandons the domain of Mara.	1
As a fletcher straightens the arrow, so the man of understanding makes straight the trembling unsteady mind, which is difficult to guard (and) difficult to restrain.	1
At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them.	0
Attachment is the main thing that is blocking your path towards enlightenment	1
Be like the earth, which supports all living creatures indiscriminately, without distinguishing good from bad.	1
Before long, this body, devoid of consciousness, will lie rejected on the ground like a useless faggot.	1
Being with such friends, and following their example, will naturally imbue you with their good qualities, just as the birds flying around a golden mountain are bathed in its golden radiance.	1
But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly look back.	0
By means of energy, mindfulness, self-restraint, and control, let the man of understanding (medhavi) make (for himself) an island that no flood can overwhelm	1
Day by day, be content with whatever you have and satisfied with whatever happens. 	1
Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan when he said: tear down this wall.	0
Do not abandon yourselves to unmindfulness; have no intimacy with sensuous delights. The mindful person, absorbed in superconscious states, gains ample bliss.	1
Do not encumber your mind with useless thoughts.	1
Do not waste a single moment more!	1
Do you remember when the President made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark to get the Olympics for our country, and, after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth place?	0
Ending the theft of American jobs will give us the resources we need to rebuild our military and regain our financial independence and strength.	0
Even if death were to fall upon you today like lightning, you must be ready to die without sadness and regret, without any residue of clinging for what is left behind	1
Everything comes down to bodhicitta	1
Everything else will then fall naturally into place.	1
Examine the nature of hatred, you will find that it is no more than a thought.	1
Experiences are preceded by mind, led by mind, and produced by mind	1
Far-ranging and lone-faring is the mind, incorporeal and abiding in the cave (of the heart). Those who bring it under control are freed from the bonds of Mara.	1
First, Our Resources Are Overextended	0
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us.	0
He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms, even before the ink was dry.	0
He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment.	0
He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.	0
He who for his own benefit constantly recites the (canonical) literature 3 but does not act accordingly, that heedless man, like a cowherd that counts the cows of others, is not enriched by the asketic life.	1
He who for his own benefit recites even a little of the (canonical) literature but lives in accordance with its principles, abandoning craving, hatred, and delusion, possessed of right knowledge, with mind well freed, clinging to nothing in this or any other world, he is enriched by the asketic life.	1
His wisdom does not attain to perfection whose mind is unsettled, who is ignorant of the Real Truth (saddhamma), and whose faith wavers.	1
History will not forget what we did.	0
I am the only person running for the Presidency who understands this problem and knows how to fix it.	0
I would like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country  one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.	0
If one speaks or acts with a pure mind, happiness follows like a shadow that never departs.	1
If one speaks or acts with an impure mind, suffering follows even as the cartwheel follows the hoof of the ox (drawing the cart).	1
If we allow our thoughts to arise and dissolve by themselves, they will pass through our mind as a bird flies through the sky, without leaving a trace.	1
If you practice teachings, it's about bodhicitta	1
If you receive empowerment, it's about bodhicitta	1
If you receive teachings, it's about bodhicitta	1
In fact, they are just as confused as our allies, but an even bigger problem is that they dont take us seriously any more.	0
In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries, besides America, are spending the minimum required 2% of GDP on defense.	0
In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table. When the other side knows youre not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win.	0
Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon and, under a Trump Administration, will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.	0