(The mind) is frivolous and difficult to control, alighting on whatever it pleases. It is good to tame the mind. A tamed mind brings happiness.	1
A beautiful county is a dream-like illusion.	1
A Trump Administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded.	0
Absorbed in superconscious states (jhanas), recollected, and ever exerting themselves, those wise ones (dhiras) realize Nirvana, the unsurpassed security	1
All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Irans treatment of our ten captured sailors.	0
America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration.	0
As a dweller in the mountains looks down on those who live in the valley, so the spiritually mature person, the hero free from sorrow, having driven out unmindfulness by means of mindfulness, ascends to the Palace of Wisdom and looks down at the sorrowful, spiritually immature multitude (below).	1
As a fish threshes from side to side when taken from one abode to another and cast on dry land, so the mind throbs and vibrates (with the strain) as it abandons the domain of Mara.	1
As a fletcher straightens the arrow, so the man of understanding makes straight the trembling unsteady mind, which is difficult to guard (and) difficult to restrain.	1
At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them.	0
Attachment is the main thing that is blocking your path towards enlightenment	1
Be like the earth, which supports all living creatures indiscriminately, without distinguishing good from bad.	1
Before long, this body, devoid of consciousness, will lie rejected on the ground like a useless faggot.	1
Being with such friends, and following their example, will naturally imbue you with their good qualities, just as the birds flying around a golden mountain are bathed in its golden radiance.	1
But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly look back.	0
By means of energy, mindfulness, self-restraint, and control, let the man of understanding (medhavi) make (for himself) an island that no flood can overwhelm	1
Day by day, be content with whatever you have and satisfied with whatever happens. 	1
Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan when he said: tear down this wall.	0
Do not abandon yourselves to unmindfulness; have no intimacy with sensuous delights. The mindful person, absorbed in superconscious states, gains ample bliss.	1
Do not encumber your mind with useless thoughts.	1
Do not waste a single moment more!	1
Do you remember when the President made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark to get the Olympics for our country, and, after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth place?	0
Ending the theft of American jobs will give us the resources we need to rebuild our military and regain our financial independence and strength.	0
Even if death were to fall upon you today like lightning, you must be ready to die without sadness and regret, without any residue of clinging for what is left behind	1
Everything comes down to bodhicitta	1
Everything else will then fall naturally into place.	1
Examine the nature of hatred, you will find that it is no more than a thought.	1
Experiences are preceded by mind, led by mind, and produced by mind	1
Far-ranging and lone-faring is the mind, incorporeal and abiding in the cave (of the heart). Those who bring it under control are freed from the bonds of Mara.	1
First, Our Resources Are Overextended	0
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us.	0
He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms, even before the ink was dry.	0
He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment.	0
He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.	0
He who for his own benefit constantly recites the (canonical) literature 3 but does not act accordingly, that heedless man, like a cowherd that counts the cows of others, is not enriched by the asketic life.	1
He who for his own benefit recites even a little of the (canonical) literature but lives in accordance with its principles, abandoning craving, hatred, and delusion, possessed of right knowledge, with mind well freed, clinging to nothing in this or any other world, he is enriched by the asketic life.	1
His wisdom does not attain to perfection whose mind is unsettled, who is ignorant of the Real Truth (saddhamma), and whose faith wavers.	1
History will not forget what we did.	0
I am the only person running for the Presidency who understands this problem and knows how to fix it.	0
I would like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country  one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.	0
If one speaks or acts with a pure mind, happiness follows like a shadow that never departs.	1
If one speaks or acts with an impure mind, suffering follows even as the cartwheel follows the hoof of the ox (drawing the cart).	1
If we allow our thoughts to arise and dissolve by themselves, they will pass through our mind as a bird flies through the sky, without leaving a trace.	1
If you practice teachings, it's about bodhicitta	1
If you receive empowerment, it's about bodhicitta	1
If you receive teachings, it's about bodhicitta	1
In fact, they are just as confused as our allies, but an even bigger problem is that they dont take us seriously any more.	0
In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries, besides America, are spending the minimum required 2% of GDP on defense.	0
In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table. When the other side knows youre not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win.	0
Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon and, under a Trump Administration, will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.	0
Israel, our great friend and the one true Democracy in the Middle East, has been snubbed and criticized by an Administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel a force for justice and peace for acting as an impediment to peace in the region. 0
It all began with the dangerous idea that we could make Western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interest in becoming a Western Democracy.	0
It arises through the conjunction of various factors, but there is nothig about it that can be grasped.	1
It is our mind, and that alone, that chains us or sets us free.	1
It is senseless to cling to it.	1
It is time to shake the rust off of Americas foreign policy. It's time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold.	0
Its nature is all-pervasive like space	1
Knowing the distinction of mindfulness the spiritually mature (panditas) rejoice in mindfulness and take delight in the sphere of the Noble Ones (ariyas)	1
Life is fragile, like the dew hanging delicately on the grass, crystal drops that will be carried away on the first morning breeze.	1
Like a beautiful flower, brightly coloured but without scent, even so useless is the well-uttered speech of one who does not act accordingly.	1
Likewise, mentally fabricating self and others, we generate attachment and aversion.	1
Likewise, thoughts that arise in the mind have no tangible existence or intrinsic solidity.	1
Likewise, we will never achieve happiness, except through positive deeds, words, and thoughts.	1
Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, and this led to one foreign policy disaster after another.	0
Love and nonattachment are the basis of true generosity	1
Love is the only cause of happiness	1
Love is the sunlight of the mind	1
May the suffering of all beings be pacified.	1
Meditation could be said to be the Art of Simplicity; simply sitting, simply breathing and simply being.	1
Mindful among the unmindful, wide awake among the sleeping, the man of good understanding forges ahead like a swift horse outdistancing a feeble hack.	1
Mindfulness is the Way to the Immortal,4 unmindfulness the way to death. Those who are mindful do not die, (whereas) the unmindful are like the dead.	1
Neither disturbs the other.	1
Neither mother nor father, nor any other relative, can do one as much good as a perfectly directed mind.	1
No vision, no purpose, no direction, no strategy.	0
Not by hatred are hatreds ever pacified here (in the world).	1
Obstacles can arise from good as well as bad circumstances, but they should never deter or overpower you.	1
Of course, no one actually wants to suffer, to be sick, to be cold or hungry - but as long as we continue to indulge in wrong-doing, we will never put an end to suffering.	1
On the day that you were born, you began to die.	1
Once you have the view, althought the delusory perceptions of samsara may arise in your mind, you will be like the sky; when a rainbow appears in front of it, it's not particularly flattered, and when the clouds appear, it's not particularly disappointed either.	1
Once you overcome the hatred within your own mind, you will discover that in the world outside, there is no loner any such thing as even a single enemy.	1
One should pay no heed to the faults of others, what they have done and not done. Rather should one consider the things that one has oneself done and not done.	1
Our allies must contribute toward the financial, political and human costs of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so. They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us.	0
Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster.	0
Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year. Were rebuilding other countries while weakening our own.	0
Out of their evil understanding the spiritually immature (balas) abandon themselves to unmindfulness. The man of understanding guards mindfulness as his chief treasure.	1
Perceiving the body to be (fragile) like a clay pot, (and) fortifying the mind as though it were a city, with the sword of wisdom make war on Mara. Free from attachment, keep watch over what has been won.	1
Postive action is something we have to cultivte ourselves; it can be neither bought nor stolen, and no one ever stumbles on it just by chance.	1
President Obama gutted our missile defense program, then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic.	0
President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power in the Middle East all at the expense of Israel, our other allies in the region and, critically, the United States.	0
President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. Hes crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders.	0
President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands even further with its nuclear reach.	0
Remain in the simplicity of the present moment.	1
Remaining in the recognition of the absolute view, you should leave this life like an eagle soring up into the blue sky.	1
Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share.	0
Sentient beings, self and others, enemies and dear ones, all are made by thoughts.	1
So why bother with attempting to establish an illusion of solid ground?	1
Spending all your time with spiritual friends will fill you with love for all beings and help you to see how negative attachment and hatred are.	1
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for the National Interest for honoring me with this invitation.	0
The almsman who delights in mindfulness (and) who regards unmindfulness with fear is not liable to regression. He is in the presence of Nirvana.	1
The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people, and American security, above all else. That will be the foundation of every decision that I will make.	0
The doer of good delights in both (worlds); he delights here and he delights there. He delights (in this life) thinking he has done good and he delights (after death) having gone to a state of happiness.	1
The earth is simply there.	1
The essence of practices is about bodhicitta	1
"The evildoer burns in both (worlds); he burns here and he burns there.
He burns (with remorse) thinking he has done evil, and he burns (with
suffering) having gone (after death) to an evil state."	1
The future is only a projection of our present conceptions	1
The list of humiliations goes on and on.	0
The mind is extremely subtle and difficult to grasp, alighting on whatever it pleases. Let the man of understanding keep watch over the mind. A guarded mind brings happiness	1
The only cause of happiness is love.	1
The only cause of suffering is self-grasping.	1
The past is only an unreliable memory held in the present.	1
The present itself vanishes as soon as we try to grasp it.	1
The towns and countryside that the traveller sees through a train window do not slow down the train, nor does the train affect them.	1
The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security.	0
Then we saved the world again, this time from totalitarian Communism. The Cold War lasted for decades, but we won.	0
Then, amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia -- it's called no respect.	0
There is a deep sense of contenment.	1
There is no fear for someone who is awake, whose mind is uncontaminated by craving, (and) unperplexed, (and) who has given up vice and virtue.	1
There is no logical reason why thoughts, which have no substance, should have so much power over you, nor is there any reason why you should become their slave.	1
Therefore we should always be ready to counter these with the appropriate antidate.	1
They are pacified by love.	1
Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they cant depend on us.	0
This is how you should see the thoughts that pass through your mind when you meditate.	1
This is the eternal law.	1
Those who do not entertain such thoughts as He abused me, he beat me, he conquered me, he robbed me, will still their hatred.	1
Those who entertain such thoughts as He abused me, he beat me, he conquered me, he robbed me, will not still their hatred.	1
To expect happiness without giving up negative action is like holding your hand in a fire and hoping not to be burned.	1
To wish happiness for others, even for those who want to do us harm, is the source of consummate happiness.	1
Today, I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.	0
True practitioners may be recognized by their unfailing mindfulness.	1
Unfortunately, after the Cold War, our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense.	0
Unless the inner forces of negative emotions are conqured, strife with outer enemies will never end.	1
We have a lot to be proud of. In the 1940s we saved the world. The Greatest Generation beat back the Nazis and the Japanese Imperialists.	0
We have been deluded by our thoughts.	1
We have spent trillions of dollars over time  on planes, missiles, ships, equipment  building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia. The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense  and, if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves.	0
We live under threat from painful emotions; anger, desire, pride, jealousy and so on.	1
We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism; thousands of American lives, and many trillions of dollars, were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill the void, much to their unjust enrichment.	0
We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obamas line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos, and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper.	0
Weve had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies.	0
Weve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now theyre starting to look elsewhere for help.	0
What good does it do to brood on the past, or anticipate the future?	1
Whatever foe may do to foe, or hater to hater, greater is the harm done (to oneself) by a wrongly directed mind.	1
When a rainbow appeads vividely in the sky, you can see its beautiful colors, yet you could not wear as clothing or put it on as an ornament.	1
When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there to meet or greet him perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One.	0
When we think that the rope is a snake, we are scared, but once we see that we are looking at a rope, our fear dissipates.	1
When you see it as it is, it will dissolve like a cloud in the sky	1
When you sit down to do your practice, what you practice is bodhicitta.	1
Whoever is energetic, recollected, pure in conduct, considerate, selfrestrained, of righteous life, and mindful, the glory of such a one waxes exceedingly	1
With the power of compassion there is nothing that cannot be accomplished.	1
You chuckle from inside as you see the facade of samsara and nirvana, the view will keep you constantly amused, with a little inner smile bubbling away all the time	1
Your practice should be strengthened by the difficult situations you encounter, just as a bonfire in a strong wind is not blown out, but blazes even brighter.	1