 This is the first of four lectures taking place this weekend,and the subject of this weekend's talk is the five aggregates. 1
There is a relationship with us, that's simply because we want tobe happy and we don't want to suffer. 1
 I heard the words of a songrecently which said "I don't mind dying it's living that scaresme. 1
" All of us know the difficulties of life and we're trying somehowto minimize those. 1
 If what the Buddha said is true and this lifeis followed by another life and another and another and anotherthen the problems are multiplied. 1
 Fortunately there was not onlybad news from the Buddha, but he also found a way of escapingfrom this suffering, and that is the main reason why we are here. 1
So the Buddha found that all of suffering is derived from amistake in cognition and that the actual antidote to that mistakeis the cultivation of a certain wisdom, and that wisdom is knownas the wisdom realizing selflessness, and it is this teaching onselflessness that mainly distinguishes the Buddha's philosophyfrom all other world philosophies. 1
 Selflessness is referring to aquality which all things possess and this quality is an absence;it is an absence of an illusion we have mistakenly projected onall things. 1
 So all of the teachings of the Buddha are either directly orindirectly trying to lead the student to discover what thatabsence is. 1
 Teachings that are speaking directly about thissubject, fall into the category of the perfection of wisdomscriptures, and in those scriptures we find such statements like"the five aggregates are empty of self". 1
 It is our task to findout what that means, so we have to first of all begin by findingout what the five aggregates are. 1
 In general the five aggregates are a way of classifying the bodyand the mind. 1
 The two main constituents that make up any personare the body and the mind. 1
 Rather than merely saying the body andmind the Buddha mentioned five classifications, and when he wasteaching this he was using handfuls of grain to say there is thisaggregate and this aggregate and this aggregate, five alltogether. 1
 The Sanskrit word is skanda, and what it means is apile, as in a heap or pile of rice, and those five are theaggregate of form, feeling, recognition, compositional factorsand consciousness. 1
 The first three of these he mentioned in particular, because oftheir relationship with desire. 1
 In addition to mentioning thatthe source of all our sufferings is in a misknowledge of reality,at other times the Buddha said that the source of all of ourproblems is desire. 1
 However we should know that he was notreferring to all desire. 1
 For instance the desire to be happy isnot a source of problems. 1
 The desire to escape one's problems isalso not the source of suffering. 1
 So he was referring to aspecific type of desire, and that being a desire whose objectappears as the source of happiness when in fact it is not. 1
 So itis a desire with respect to or, a desire towards anhallucination, and the means of eliminating that desire is bydiscovering that the object is an hallucination. 1
 So what are the types of objects that this negative desirearises towards? 1
 Well, one is bodies, our own and others. 1
 It's not uncommon thata body can appear in an exaggerated way, causing it to seem as ifit is the source of happiness, and not only the body but also allthe objects of our senses. 1
 So in order to discover the actualityof the objects of the senses then the Buddha taught, or TheBuddha mentioned the aggregate of FORM. 1
 Then desire arises for those things that feel good. 1
 In fact thedesire that motivates most people arises from pleasantexperiences, such as with the thought "This feels good thereforeI want to never be parted from it. 1
" What a common thought! 1
 Wherethe mistake arises is in this expression "never being parted fromit", especially if this object is something impermanent, and thatthere is no way that the contact can be preserved for- ever. 1
Consequently the desire is setting oneself up for disappointment. 1
Therefore in order to explore such feelings the Buddha mentionedthe second aggregate the aggregate of FEELING. 1
 Another object to which people become attached with desire areideas. 1
 The disputes that scholars get into can get very heated,because these scholars become attached to their ideas anddiscriminations, regarding their own as superior and other'sideas as inferior, causing them to desire for their idea to berecognized as the supreme. 1
 This fuels the actions of speech andso forth that make the various disputes that one gets and cancome to such extremes as causing closed mindedness, losing theability to openly examine other's ideas. 1
 In order to explore suchdiscriminations or ideation the Buddha mentioned the aggregate ofDISCRIMINATIONS. 1
 There are many other functions and emotions of the mind, so heheaped all of those in the classification known as COMPOSITIONALFACTORS. 1
 In some texts the compositional factor aggregate iscalled VOLITION, and volition is one of the functions of the mindthat is contained within that class. 1
 This is an example of givingthe name of a member of the group to the whole group. 1
 VOLlTIONwas chosen rather than any of the others because of it'simportance, and this is because desire for instance can onlybring about experience once it is put into action, and the way itis put into action is through volition. 1
 For instance one can havethe desire to possess something, but it is only when onegenerates the actual will to get it that the action follows andsuch volition or will is what is known as karma. 1
 The word karmais used colloquially to refer to the experiences that occur topeople. 1
 Technically those experiences are known as the results ofkarma, and technically karma is referring to the action which isthe cause of such experiences. 1
 Karma then is referring tovolition or will, as well as the actions of body and speechmotivated by such will, and once you have set the action inmotion then you're bound to the result, like the turning of awheel. 1
 So as this is something important to analyze and come toknow the Buddha mentioned this aggregate of compositionalfactors. 1
 The last aggregate is the aggregate of CONSCIOUSNESS and this isreferring to the six consciousnesses, visual, auditory,olfactory, gustatory, tactile and mental, which are the mainmeans we come to know the various objects that compose reality. 1
So this also is very important to investigate. 1
 So that was a brief presentation of the five aggregates. 1
 In the doctrine of selflessness there's said to be two types. 1
The selflessness of person and the selflessness of phenomena, andthe person is said to be the I that is designated in dependenceupon any of the aggregates such as in the expression "I amsitting here. 1
" That I is a person which is being designated independence upon the form aggregate, because it is beingdesignated in dependence upon the body which is included in theFORM aggregate. 1
 Without the body you wouldn't be able to have thethought "I am sitting here. 1
" The great Indian master Nagarjunawho elucidated The Buddha's teaching on selflessness said thatthe misconception of the self of a person arises by dependingupon the misconception of the self of phenomena. 1
 By phenomenathere he meant the five aggregates, and for example because ofmistaking the way in which the five aggregates exist, such as thebody, mistaking the way in which it exists then we mistake theway the I exists which is dependent upon those aggregates. 1
 Bymistaking the way the I exists one mistakes the way others exist,and by mistaking the way others exist then such perverse thoughtsas clinging and ill will arise. 1
 Due to the arisal of suchemotional addictions there comes volition, the acting out ofthose emotions, and due to such action one is bound to experiencethe result, which creates a cycle or vicious circle of death andrebirth, over and over again. 1
 Nagarjuna mentioned that, in his book " The Precious Garland OfAdvice To The King. 1
" In there he tried to clarify what themistake of self of person is, and what the mistake of self ofphenomena is, in order to generate the wisdom of selflessness ofperson and phenomena in order to put an end to this viciouscircle of existence. 1
 So studying such a book has benefits, but in order to make senseof Nagarjuna's arguments you have to have some appreciation ofthe world view that he held. 1
 For instance when Nagarjuna wasdescribing phenomena he did so in terms of the four elements;earth water, fire and air. 1
 Such a presentation has not beenemployed in Western education for a long time! 1
 Now, if you'relooking for elements you look in the Periodic Table which hasdozens of elements, which requires having a certain love ofchemistry to penetrate. 1
 So the presentation of things in terms offour elements seems simplistic in comparison with the PeriodicTable But on it's own it has it's own elegance and if you understandit then you'll be able to understand the arguments set forth inthe Buddhist classics such as the " Precious Garland". 1
 It is not necessary to read such classics in order to gain thewisdom realizing selflessness. 1
 For instance one can do it byrelying on the words of a master who has the correctunderstanding of selflessness and can present it in contemporaryterms, but there is a benefit in being able to appreciate thepresentations in those classic texts which is that such texts arethe scriptural authorities that masters have been relying uponfor generations and thus if your understanding, if you can seethat your understanding is supported by those classic textsyou'll have that much more confidence in your understanding. 1
 It'salways nice to know what the contemporary masters are relyingupon to get their understanding. 1
 This helps a lot to avoidcultism, because such knowledge is not the personal property ofanybody and if you discover that such knowledge can be generatedby the study of a timeless wisdom then you know it is not thesole property of one individual whom you have to please in orderto get drops. 1
 So are you following me so far? 1
 Okay. 1
 So now we begin the detailed presentation of the fiveaggregates. 1
 The first is the FORM AGGREGATE. 1
 It consists ofeleven items. 1
 Q: What is the difference between volition and mentalconsciousness? 1
 A : I'll give a quick answer now and later there'll be moredetails. 1
 So mental consciousness is included in the fifthaggregate and volition is included in forth aggregate, andvolition is a function you find in all consciousnesses. 1
 Mentalconsciousness has the function of volition, so you should seemental consciousness as something that is merely knowing it'sobject whereas volition is a way in which that mentalconsciousness relates to that object or functions with respect tothat object. 1
 More information comes later. 1
 I mentioned there were eleven divisions of form and I should saythat the source that I'm taking most of this information from isthe book " Meditation On Emptiness" by Professor Jeffrey Hopkins. 1
So if you're being frustrated by not being able to take notes asfast as I am speaking you'll find all the information in thatbook. 1
 So we have the eye sense organ, lets not use the word organ letsuse the word power, or eye sense faculty, or eye power or eyefaculty whatever you choose. 1
 Choose one of them rather than allof them, it takes too long. 1
 Eye faculty, Ear faculty, Nose faculty, Tongue faculty, Bodyfaculty. 1
 That's five so far. 1
 Then there's visual form, sound,smell, taste, tactile objects and the eleventh one is form forthe mental consciousness. 1
 So then with respect to those first five what's meant byfaculty? 1
 Well if it's a form it's made up of particles. 1
 So we can sayatomically constructed. 1
 That's what we mean by form here and thefaculty here is a form that enables consciousness to have accessto it's respective objects. 1
 For example the eye faculty enablesvisual consciousness to function within the field of visual formor visual objects, and the ear faculty allows the auditoryconsciousness to function within the field of sound. 1
 You have todistinguish between the eye faculty and the eye ball in which theeye faculty is found. 1
 Similarly with the ear faculty and thefleshy ear and so forth. 1
 These faculties are composed ofparticles and are subtle, subtle in that not just anybody can seethem. 1
 Whether or not they can be seen by machinery I don't know. 1
The texts say that clever persons with certain types of superknowledge can see these forms and thus certain shapes have beenattributed to them. 1
 Such as the eye faculty is shaped like thebud of a ? 1
 plant. 1
 Whatever that is. 1
 The ear faculty is shapedlike the knot of a birch tree. 1
 I'm mentioning this just to saythat these faculties have been seen by somebody who thought thatthey could be distinguished by their shapes. 1
 They didn't stopwith the mere designation of a name. 1
 The nose faculty is shapedlike two hollow needles at the root of the nose. 1
 Then the tonguefaculty is shaped like many half moons the diameter of the tip ofa hair, each one is the diameter of the tip of a hair and arefound in the middle of the tongue. 1
 The body faculty is shapedlike skin or hide pervading the body. 1
 Such faculties then have the function of enabling theirrespective consciousnesses to access their respective objects. 1
What consciousnesses ? 1
 The five sense consciousnesses. 1
 Somebody might have remembered that I mentioned there were sixconsciousnesses in the consciousness aggregate. 1
 Therefore someonemight wonder does that consciousness have a faculty? 1
 Does thatmental consciousness have a faculty? 1
 It does, because it has tohave that which enables it to access it's object. 1
 These facultiesare necessary conditions for the arising of consciousness, andthe faculty is known as the dominate condition, because of givingthat consciousness power with respect to it's object, causingthat consciousness to operate only in that one field rather thananother field. 1
 For example due to the eye faculty visualconsciousness can only see visual objects it cannot see sounds. 1
So mental consciousness also has a mental faculty that functionsas it's dominate condition, but unlike the five senseconsciousnesses the mental faculty is not form. 1
 That is unlikethose five faculties I've mentioned being form, the mentalfaculty is not composed of particles. 1
 I hope I'm not going too slow for some of you, but as there isso much information here it would be better to go home withsomething, rather than only remembering a blur of sound. 1
 So that mental faculty is a previous moment of consciousnesssuch as a visual consciousness that enables the mentalconsciousness to access visual objects. 1
 So therefore that visualconsciousness would be considered a mental faculty and dominatecondition for the arising of the mental consciousness perceivingvisual objects. 1
 All kinds of interesting things to discuss arisefrom such a presentation but there isn't enough time Okay so we have here in the case of the visual faculty thefunction that enables consciousness to access visual objects, Allkinds of interesting things to discuss arise from such apresentation but there isn't enough time. 1
 Okay so we have here in the case of the visual faculty thefunction that enables visual consciousness to access visualobjects. 1
 So what are the visual forms that are the objects ofvisual consciousness? 1
 There are two main types: shapes andcolors: white, blue, red and yellow; these are said to be thecolor of the four elements. 1
 Air is white, water is blue, fire isred and earth is yellow. 1
 There is another presentation of eightsecondary colors. 1
 It's a bit bizarre though, such as the color ofcloud, the color of smoke, the color of mist, the color ofillumination, the color of darkness, the color of shadow and thecolor of sunlight. 1
 These two lists of divisions of color are obviously notexhaustive. 1
 So these are the color visual objects. 1
 Then there areshapes of which you have different kinds, such as long shapesshort shapes, such as a long board or a deep well. 1
 Then there'shigh and low, there's a shape known as square but it can refer toany polygon. 1
 That's also an example of the name of a part givento the whole. 1
 So although it's called square shaped it can referto the shape of a dice, it can also refer to the shape ofrectangular boxes and so forth. 1
 Then there's the round shapewhich can refer to anything egg-shaped and can also refer to theso called flat circle. 1
 There's the level shape, like the shape ofthe surface of this floor. 1
 Then there can be the non level shape,such as the shape of a ploughed field that is irregular. 1
 Shapes and colors is what visual conscious sees. 1
 The questionarises : Can you see that vase there ? 1
 And of course one would say "Yes" But technically speaking what the visual consciousness is seeingis just the shape and color of the vase, and the vase is not ashape or a color. 1
 So because one has come to associate a vasewith such a shape then the visual consciousness can immediatelygive rise to the thought thinking vase. 1
 This cognition thinkingvase that employs the word vase and thus is being done with aconceptual consciousness is called "seeing a vase', simplybecause of the close relationship between the seeing of the colorand the shape of the vase and that conception thinking vase thatarises as a result of it. 1
 So this is an example of giving the name of a cause to theresult. 1
 The cause being the visual consciousness and the resultbeing a mental consciousness that is a conception. 1
 If this soundsvery mechanical and concrete it is. 1
 It is based upon theSautantrika view of Buddhist tenet. 1
 They have a very concreteview of the world. 1
 It's very logical and categorical. 1
 They liketo keep their categories straight without mixing, and as we allknow nothing is that clear. 1
 But just as a person interested inparticle physics and quantum mechanics must first pass throughNewtonian physics to get there, likewise it's very useful for usto see the world from the Sautantrika point of view before we getinto bizarre explanations of the higher schools of Buddhistthought such as the Prasangika. 1
 Just as quantum mechanics arosebecause when you explore the view of Newton and his mechanics,you discover on extremely tiny things, and also on vast distancesin other words, on the very limits of that view, there are someproblems. 1
 Likewise when you explore the limits of the Sautantrikaview you see the need to jump to a higher view. 1
 I use the exampleof physics as if I knew something about it, but it was one of myworst subjects actually. 1
 Sound is defined as the object of auditory consciousness, andthere's different ways of dividing it. 1
 One way is sound that arises from elements conjoined withconsciousness and sound arising from elements not conjoined withconsciousness. 1
 The sound that arises from elements conjoined with consciousnesswould be the sounds made by a human being. 1
 Amongst sounds made bya human being there's two types, articulate sounds and nonarticulate sounds. 1
 Articulate sounds are sounds that denote ameaning such as words, and of articulate sounds there's two typespleasant and unpleasant. 1
 A pleasant articulate sound might begood poetry, an unpleasant articulate sound might be criticism. 1
 The non articulate sounds don't denote any meaning inparticular, and there are two types; pleasant and unpleasant. 1
 A pleasant one might be the snapping of fingers, an unpleasantone might be the sound of a hand slapping a face. 1
 Then amongst sounds arising from elements not conjoined withconsciousness there are two types; articulate and non articulate. 1
The definition is the same as before, one denotes a meaning andthe other doesn't. 1
 Of the articulate there are two types pleasantand unpleasant. 1
 What might be a pleasant one that's an articulatesound? 1
 There's the legendary dharma drum in the heavens. 1
 Thebeating of it produces dharma discourses. 1
 An unpleasantarticulate sound, now I'm going to merely guess here. 1
 Decideyourself whether I'm right or wrong, and that would be an echothat is criticizing you. 1
 An echo's coming from a cliff, that's asound arising from elements not conjoined with consciousness. 1
 SoI think it possesses the definition. 1
 Then the non articulatesounds, pleasant and unpleasant. 1
 A pleasant one would be thesound of a well played musical instrument, and the unpleasant onewould be the sound of a not well played musical instrument. 1
 Iused to be in an orchestra once and to hear a person justlearning to play the violin was just painful? 1
 Of course when theyget good it's a different story but in the beginning. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
 Sothat's sounds. 1
 Then the next is odors. 1
 These are defined as objects perceivedby the olfactory consciousness. 1
 There's different divisions, suchas fragrant odors and unfragrant odors. 1
 This refers to somethingthat smells nice and something that doesn't smell nice, and ofthese there are two divisions. 1
 Those that are equal and those that are unequal. 1
 An equal odorwhether it is fragrant or unfragrant would be one that is equalwith everything else, it doesn't dominate. 1
 Whereas the unequalone in the case of a fragrant odor would be a perfume thatdominates everything else when you enter a room. 1
 In the case ofthe unfragrant dominate odor, an example would be the smell ofgarlic. 1
 So we have all these different divisions; products of the Indianmentality, in particular Indian scholars, who sat down and triedto figure out everything that could be known and then put in it'sproper category. 1
 So if you sat down to analyze odors it's notjust a question of odors; it's a question of fragrant odors,unfragrant odors, subtle odors, strong odors etc. 1
 Then we come to tastes, an object of special fondness in thiscountry. 1
 There are six types; and by the way taste is defined asthe object of gustatory consciousness. 1
 Sweet and sour, hot andsalty, bitter and astringent. 1
 What's that spice from Solu Khumbu? 1
Erma! 1
 Astringent would be the flavor of erma. 1
 Actually erma issaid to have all the flavors. 1
 The astringent somehow dries yourtongue, shrivels it up. 1
 So these different objects including the tastes are made up ofthe four elements. 1
 For example the sweet taste arises from apreponderance of the earth and the water element, sour from fireand earth, salt flavor from water and fire, hot from fire andwind, bitter from water and wind and astringency from earth andwind. 1
 We then come to tactile objects which are the objects perceivedby the tactile consciousness. 1
 There are two groups: the elementsand the tangible objects that are arisen from the elements. 1
 Theelements are as mentioned before earth, water, fire and wind. 1
Earth is hard and obstructive; water is wet and cohesive; fire ishot and burning; air is light and moving, and the thing is younever have one of the elements without another one. 1
 The smallestparticles are said to be made out of eight things. 1
 They're madeout of the four elements, and they are made out of the visualobject, olfactory, the gustatory and tactile. 1
 There's no auditoryparticle because sound is not something which can produce acontinuum of itself as the other one's can. 1
 So the particles thatmake up all forms are when you get down to the smallest particlesare particles made up of these eight components, but thoseparticles will have a dominance of one element over another. 1
 Sotherefore when you see a fire it doesn't mean that there is nowater element there. 1
 It is only that the fire element isdominating at that time. 1
 For example a fire's ability to supporta piece of paper or a leaf. 1
 For instance if you throw a piece ofpaper or a leaf in a fire it doesn't immediately float down, it'sheld. 1
 That ability is the function of the earth element part offire. 1
 Also the way that all the tongues of the flames of the firecan all merge together, that's the water element of the fire. 1
 Thefact that the fire can move is the air element part of the fire,and of course the fire is something that you can see, touch andso forth. 1
 Even though fire is defined in terms of the tactileconsciousness, it is still something that you can see, so that issomething that is included in those other components of fire. 1
 Now how might water contain those other elements? 1
 A body ofwater, how might that contain all the elements ? 1
 For instancewater can support a ship, that's it's earth element, and if youput a plant in water eventually it will decay and that's it'sfire element. 1
 Water will flow down hill and that's it's airelement. 1
 Wind's earth element can support all kinds of objects, such asleaves, and when the wind blows, your clothes will dry, that'sit's fire element. 1
 The wind of a tornado moves together, that'sit's water element. 1
 When you take two stones, certain stones and hit them togetheryou get a spark, that's the fire element in earth and the factthat all the parts of a board hold together, the cells don'tdisintegrate but hold together, that is the water element ofEarth. 1
 Things like trees can move, that's the wind element or airelement. 1
 I didn't mean walking! 1
 they move when they grow. 1
 So like that whenever you have the one element you have theother elements, you may find that one of the elements dominatesthe other ones. 1
 There's other tangible objects too, besides theelements; such as smooth, rough, heavy, light, cold, hunger,thirst and they are said to arise from the four elements. 1
 Smoothness arises from a dominance of fire and water, roughnessfrom earth and water, heavy from earth and water, light from fireand wind, cold from water and wind, hunger from wind or adominance of wind, and thirst from a dominance of fire. 1
 Theseparticles can be seen and their color is depending on whichelement is dominating, and the shapes depend upon the arrangementof the color particles. 1
 So then what about these forms for a mental consciousness? 1
 These are forms that are objects only for a mentalconsciousness. 1
 One is called form arising from aggregation orcollection. 1
 The small particles that make up gross objects thatwe can see and hear and so forth can't be seen by the senses,however our mental consciousness can know of such particles. 1
 Forinstance I don't think anybody has seen an electron, but we knowabout them don't we? 1
 So those would be form for a mentalconsciousness and in particular this one form arising fromaggregation. 1
 Another one is called space form, this one is difficult toappear to my mind, but it is similar to the space that appears toa visual consciousness. 1
 For instance there is a space thatappears to our visual consciousness such as the gap betweenourselves and some object across the room, and that gap issomething that is changeable. 1
 It can change color for instance,it can get dark, it can get smog colored, in a city for instance,or it can be clear. 1
 So this is something that is a changeablephenomena and can be seen with the eyes, and likewise, when oneis using only the mental consciousness you can see space. 1
 Such aswhen you shut your eyes and you imagine something far away. 1
 Thenaren't you cognizant of the space between you and that object faraway as in the distance? 1
 So that one is not appearing to yourvisual consciousness that's appearing to your mentalconsciousness, that is the space form included as the object ofmental consciousness and one should distinguish such space fromwhat is known as permanent space. 1
 A permanent space is a negationof obstruction to extension. 1
 For example there is a space that wecan see in the middle of this room, and somebody might wonder isthere enough space to pass through, and you look there and youlook at the size of that person say, and you see that there is noobstruction there that should prevent the person passing. 1
 Thatabsence of obstruction is known as a permanent space. 1
 It iscalled permanent not because it will last forever, but ratherbecause it is not a thing that changes from moment to moment. 1
 Itis not some dynamic energy, it is a mere absence of obstruction,therefore it is called permanent. 1
 There's nothing permanent about the five aggregates! 1
 The fiveaggregates are said to include all impermanent phenomena. 1
 Butthere are other than impermanent phenomena, such as permanentphenomena. 1
 Then another type of form contained in the form for a mentalconsciousness would be the form arising from a promise. 1
 Forexample when a person takes a vow, it is said a subtle formarises, which certain people with super knowledge can see. 1
 Ioften wonder what my form created from taking vows looks likeafter twenty years. 1
 Maybe like a very holey rag! 1
 So these forms do not just arise when one is making virtuouspromises either. 1
 In dependence upon a butcher's physical andverbal actions in killing animals and the selling of their fleshalso such a form can arise. 1
 Maybe this may have some relationship with what are known asauras. 1
 Then there are imaginary forms such as the elephants of a dream. 1
It's a form but not really, because it's not actually made out ofparticles, physical particles, so that's why it's called animaginary form and it just appears to a mental consciousness. 1
 Then there's the forms of one with meditative power, and thiswould be a form that some person with a special power cangenerate which others can see. 1
 There's different types here;there's the type that only lasts as long as the meditator isconcentrating and then there's the type that can remain even whenthe meditator is doing something else. 1
 Okay so that deals with the form aggregate. 1
 Let's take a break. 1
 So I'd like to begin this afternoon with any questions that camefrom this mornings lecture. 1
 There was a lot of information, so long as it's not a questionlike could you repeat what you said this morning I would be happyto answer. 1
 Was it clear? 1
 Q: This morning Pende said that the first three of theaggregates were linked to desire. 1
 Why is the forth one Volition,not linked to desire? 1
 A: The fourth one is explained mainly on the basis of volitionas I mentioned and I said that volition is the same thing askarma, but in fact you can't say that all volition is karma, onlythe volition that is under the control of ignorance is known askarma. 1
 And thus as negative desire is a product of ignorance thenthe volition which is controlled by desire is certainly thisphenomena known as karma. 1
 There is a way of course, a way of relating the fourth aggregatewith desire, but it is not entirely necessary, in that The Buddhawhen he was explaining the five aggregates, he did so in such away as to point out how a person who has acquired the fiveaggregates is bound to cyclic existence. 1
 A person is bound incyclic existence by both the mental addictions and karma. 1
 Okay. 1
. 1
So for instance we can say that volition is controlled by desirethus when we investigate volition it is important to see how thatis the case, and wherever the volition goes that's where the sixconsciousnesses go, because that's the specific function ofvolition, that is to take the consciousness to it's respectiveobject. 1
 Another question? 1
 Q: What do you mean by volition? 1
 A: Okay, that's coming up. 1
 We could even say it's the same thingas will power, or intention. 1
 Q: Why isn't the auditory object, sound, included in the sameway that other sensory objects are? 1
 A: The answer given before was that sound doesn't produce acontinuum of itself, but that was insufficient. 1
 So here sound is understood as something that arises from forinstance hitting one object against another, but if those objectsdon't come in to contact there is no sound produced, so in thecase of this one foundation particle, which is composed of eightparts sound isn't included in there because that object is notmaking a sound. 1
 That is, there is no separate particle inaddition to those eight, that you could say is sound, but if twoof those particles collided then it is possible that a soundcould be produced. 1
 Q: So if there is nothing which can produce the sound, it's thesame for the other objects like tactile objects or olfactoryobjects, so if I don't see something, if there is not an object,a visual object I cannot see it, if there is not a taste object Icannot taste it. 1
 A: Here, it's not that there is nothing that produces the sound,sound is produced. 1
 For instance when a particle strikes the eardrum then sound is produced. 1
 Now the types of particles that aremoving through space that will strike the ear drum we call soundwaves. 1
 Now in this system it is thought that these foundationparticles as they move can bring about sound, but there is noparticular particle which is sound, whereas there is a particularparticle that is a visual form, and there is a particularparticle that is an odor and so forth. 1
 Those particles are saidto be evolution, to be developments of the four elements. 1
 Avisual particle and so forth are somehow made up of the fourelements, and so you can take some object and touch it, and thereason why you can touch it, is because of it's tactile objectquality, or you can taste it and so forth, but when you listen,the sound that you might hear is not due to a particle of sound,but rather to the movement of all these other particles. 1
 That's the best I can do. 1
 Q: How can it be that good desires don't give birth in cyclicexistence? 1
 A: So this mental factor of volition I said is called karma inthe case of being under the control of ignorance. 1
 In cases wherewe read that in order to become liberated we have to cease karma,it does not mean that we have to bring to an end all instances ofthis mental factor of volition. 1
 It means we have to bring to anend the dominance or the control of volition by these mentaladdictions, so volition having the basic function of taking themind to it's object whatever it is, is also operating in the mindof a Buddha, because without volition the mind would not be ableto make contact with any object. 1
 Thus The Buddha would not knowthings, and The Buddha would not have a compassion whichperceives sentient beings. 1
 So volition is a necessary function ofconsciousness. 1
 If you want to know something, if it's notparticularly easy for your mind to know an object, then you haveto have the wish to do so. 1
 That wish can be desire, we can callit aspiration, and that motivates that will to do it, to discoverthat object. 1
 Then of course all the actions following thathopefully will bring you to the object that you want toexperience, and some objects are worth experiencing and othersare not. 1
 When this wish, aspiration, or positive desire isbrought about by a wisdom consciousness of clear intelligencethen it is not going to get us in trouble. 1
 In particular if it isbrought about by a wisdom consciousness that perceives reality,then it won't cause the type of volitional activity that bringsabout the uncontrolled death and rebirth known as cyclicexistence. 1
 So it is interesting to contemplate existence without any desireat all. 1
 Why would you do anything if you had no desirewhatsoever? 1
 The only types of actions that would happen would be actionslike falling down. 1
 But of course if you had no desire whatsoeveryou would never have stood up. 1
 Now because of such observationsthere are those who thought that the path to liberation was theend of all desire, and thus engaged in the practice of totalinactivity, which they sought to achieve by stopping their mindfrom generating any desire. 1
 In the process of doing that theydiscovered it takes some time to stop the mind from generatingdesire. 1
 If they pursued this practice of total inactivity theymight starve to death before they reached the mental state of nodesire, then there had to be some desire employed to get up andget food and stuff, and that type of activity was not seen asactivity that was leading to bondage but was leading toliberation. 1
 So now the interesting question then becomes what isit that they are going to do to stop the mind of desire? 1
 Forinstance if there is no desire whatsoever, which is the same assaying no aspiration then what would the liberation that thisperson is seeking look like? 1
 Would it be some kind of a state ofutter non-existence? 1
 Because if there is no movement taking placeat all then it would be just that. 1
 Perhaps our idea of this typeof liberation is based upon our experience of deep sleep. 1
 Thatstate that we have no direct experience of but we infer from ourmemory of when we lost consciousness and when we regained itagain this is not a perfected state, this is not the experienceof Buddha. 1
 A Buddha is quite active, benefiting sentient beings. 1
For instance a Buddha has to want to benefit sentient beings, sowe have to cultivate that now as practitioners. 1
 So this is theproblem of trying to distinguish between the negative desire andthe positive desire, and it often happens that we refer tonegative desires as positive desires. 1
 It would be much easier ifwe could just sort of block out all desire whatsoever, and sayit's all negative. 1
 But would that be nearly as attractive as theultimate goal? 1
 Such an ultimate goal is the plan of mostmaterialists. 1
 They are betting that after death there is nothing. 1
They can achieve that without even meditating one minute, it'sjust going to arise naturally when the breath stops. 1
 Of courseit's interesting that there is nothing that we know that is likethat. 1
 It seems like everything always remains something, such asin theory of the conservation of energy, no energy is ever lostit just transforms into something else. 1
 But that belief of thematerialist is just like any dogmatic belief. 1
 There's no evidencefor it, nobody has ever come back from the state of nothingnessto say how it was. 1
 Okay any more questions. 1
 No. 1
 Then I have a question. 1
 If it's a color is it necessarily an object of the visualconsciousness ? 1
 A: There are for instance the very small particles, they have acolor but the visual consciousness can't perceive those, they'reobjects of mental consciousness. 1
 Now the objects of mentalconsciousness are called phenomena, visual objects, sounds,smells and so forth are also phenomena aren't they ? 1
 So does that mean that the objects of the mental consciousnessare the same as the objects of the other five consciousnesses? 1
 The answer to that is that the phenomena which are the objectsof the mental consciousness is referring to all the other objectsthat aren't included as objects of the first five senseconsciousness's, such as the color of the very small particle, oreven the very small particle itself etc. 1
, other consciousness'sand so forth Q: Can a mental consciousness perceive a visual form, a grossvisual form not just the subtle? 1
 A: Yes it can, I mentioned an example of it how a visualconsciousness perceiving a blue color can be a cause for a mentalconsciousness. 1
 What do I mean by a gross object? 1
 Does that mean something that's disgusting? 1
 No not in this context. 1
 Although sometimes that's what I mean bygross, but in this context a gross object means an object that'scomposed of many particles, such as a table. 1
 It's made up of manyparticles, and the basic particle that forms a table is thateight fold particle. 1
 Then you can think that the hardness of thistable comes from the earth element, and that the wood all stickstogether this comes from the water element. 1
 If you rub this woodwith another piece of wood theoretically fire will come thiscomes from the fire element, and there must be some movementthere otherwise I don't think you'd get a nail to go in the wood,and that's the air element. 1
 You can see the table and that's dueto the visual particles. 1
 I think you could even taste the tabledue to the taste particles and so forth. 1
 Now if visual form, sound, and smell and so forth, if these areall made up of particles which are themselves developments of thefour elements why are the four elements contained as tactileobjects ? 1
 Why aren't they included amongst visual objects orodors or something like that? 1
 This is because it is through tactile consciousness that wemainly know those elements. 1
 Earth is known through it's hardness and hardness is knownthrough tactile consciousness. 1
 Water is known through wetness andthat is perceived by tactile consciousness. 1
 Fire is known by it'sbeing hot and that's perceived by tactile consciousness, Air byit's lightness and that's experienced by tactile consciousness. 1
So without tactile consciousness there would be no way to knowthose elements. 1
 So that's why they are included as objects of thetactile consciousness. 1
 So if you keep those questions and answers in mind you should beable to pass the test on Sunday afternoon. 1
 I'm only joking. 1
 Now we leave the form aggregate behind and deal with the fouraggregates that are included in mind. 1
 First of all what I mean by mind is that which is clear andknowing. 1
 Clear describes it's reality being formless. 1
 Buddhismasserts then, that mind is not made of form, it is not composedof physical particles, therefore it can not be reduced toelectromagnetic energy. 1
 So therefore it is not the brain, it'snot neurons and it's not the electrical energy passing throughthose neurons, nor is it a mere name referring to those objects. 1
 There is one theory that mind is merely an Epi phenomena, whichis just a name but it is referring to, for example, according tothis way of seeing a chair could be called an epi phenomenabecause what a chair in fact is, is the legs the seat and theback and that's what a chair is. 1
 But we talk about a chair as ifit were a gestalt, something greater than the sum of it's parts,something other than the sum of it's parts. 1
 Likewise, when we aretalking about mind these people would say that all we're reallytalking about is these electro- chemical responses going on inthe body, but they run into some trouble philosophically withthat position, because when we are talking about mind, we are nottalking about the body We are not talking about the electro-chemical responses going on in the body. 1
 Those materialistreductionists would like to eliminate the language of the mindfrom all language. 1
 They would just like to eliminate it, but theycan't, so they would like to say that type of language is initself meaningless, it has it's own internal consistency, butwhat's really going on that accounts for experience and so forthis the electro-chemical reactions in the body. 1
 When you presssome body who adheres to this philosophy for some observableevidence that they base their philosophy on, they would giveexamples of cases where through injecting certain chemicals inthe brain, or removing certain parts of the brain and so forthyou can bring about these different experiences like making a catfear a mouse, a mouse being so brave that it will attack a cat. 1
Or by brain damage you can eliminate memories of whole parts ofone's life, or through the electrical stimulation of differentparts of the brain you can cause such things as gustatoryconsciousness to arise, or various memories to occur. 1
 So a person who adheres to the non physical nature of the mindwill say that such events are merely describing the relationshipbetween the body and the mind, but not the identity of body andmind, that through stimulating a physical organ then a mentalexperience can take place. 1
 Such a relationship is alreadyasserted by Buddhism. 1
 For instance, as I said there are fivephysical faculties upon which the five sense consciousnessesdepend. 1
 If those faculties are damaged in any way then theconsciousnesses will be affected, but they are also quick topoint out it's not only that the body affects the mind but themind can affect the body. 1
 For example by visualizing certainchannels in the body and concentrating on certain visualizedpoints in those channels you can change the temperature of thebody radically. 1
 Of course that's an extraordinary example butthere are many ordinary ones. 1
 For instance the reason why we camehere was not necessarily a physical itch, but rather there werereasons in our mind for coming here. 1
 While there are certainmental diseases that are treated successfully with chemicals,there are many mental disorders that are best treated by usingthe mind itself. 1
 For example if you desire a BMW. 1
, say 240 Turbodrive, black, tinted black windows with a lot of trunk space. 1
 Ifyou desire that, but you do not have the money to pay for it,then the best solution is not to take Prozac or some otherchemical agent, but rather it's to contemplate the difficultiesyou would experience being in debt for the rest of your life, howthat would last longer than the life of the car, how having thatcar will not solve all of your problems, that there'll still beyou driving it, alone, hungry, looking for some place to drive toand running out of gas. 1
 So thinking like that can replace this image of that car beingthe most important thing in the world, and although it may notreplace that desire it can work on it slowly. 1
 Whereas thechemicals may deal with that desire by causing some euphoricstate where you may think you don't need anything any more, or itmay cause a dullness in the mind where you couldn't botheryourself to generate such desires, but when you come off thechemical those desires once again arise, so at best they can beseen to be temporary solutions, and everybody recognizes that thebest solution would be a mental solution such as an insight thatsees the reality of the situation. 1
 That insight is gained through a thinking process. 1
 It's notgained by taking pills, or by a well balanced diet, withexercise. 1
 So that in itself shows the difference between the mindand the body. 1
 You can have a person who physically is veryhealthy, but mentally is a mess. 1
 Likewise somebody who ismentally very clear, friendly, soft etc. 1
 but physically is amess. 1
 Those are kinds of examples that illustrate the difference innature between the mind and the body, and there's many others. 1
Some of the more dramatic examples you find in the experimentsthat take place in parapsychology, which are phenomena that can'tbe explained by any physical laws, nor can their existence bedenied, but you shouldn't take my word for it, this is somethingyou have to study for yourself. 1
 For some people this is veryobvious for others it's just a belief but it's not something thatis supported by any conviction, in particular a conviction that'sbased on sound reasoning or direct observation, consequently thatbelief could be easily shaken, or at the back of the mind theremight be a subtle hope that at the time of death every thingceases, and one won't have to worry about all that bad karma onehas been accumulating. 1
 For while the mind is clear, ( meaningformless), it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. 1
 It exists because ithas the function of cognition. 1
 It apprehends objects, anapprehension which is known as knowing, or cognizing and it isdynamic, it is energetic, it is not a physical energy, but it isnon the less functioning obviously. 1
 So why not apply the law ofconservation of energy to it. 1
 There's no reason why it shouldsuddenly stop while all other physical energies keep going in oneway or another. 1
 Well you can make anything sound reasonable, justbecause something sounds reasonable that doesn't mean that's theway it is. 1
 Yet there are examples of people who seem to confirmthe existence of this continuum of mental energy, such as thechildren who remember former lives, and whose reports arecorroborated by authoritative researchers. 1
 Anybody ever heard of a great philosopher and mathematiciannamed Pascal? 1
 "Pascal's Wager". 1
 Have you ever heard of Pascal's-wager ? 1
 You're going to. 1
 For the benefit of those who haven'theard of it, I think he was French, he said that if you preparefor the next life and there isn't a next life then you'll have noregrets because you won't be around. 1
 If you don't prepare for anext life and there is a next life you'll have big regrets. 1
 Sothere's nothing to lose by preparing for the next life andeverything to gain! 1
 So what I mean by mind then is what is clear and knowing. 1
 Youknow what knowing is right, the opposite of not knowing isknowing. 1
 Do you know the exact population of France this moment? 1
Nothing comes to mind does it. 1
 That's not knowing, there's not anapprehension of an object, such as an appearance that can be seenby the eyes and so forth. 1
 Do you know the human population ofyour house? 1
 Suddenly something comes to mind, so that's knowing The mental factors are mind that function to perceive thequalities of the object and respond in various ways to thefeatures of the object. 1
 Main minds and mental factors are relatedby being one substance, that is for any main mind there aremental factors which are of the same substance of that main mind,or we could say that mind in general, this thing which is clearand knowing has various functions one of those functions iscalled main mind and the other functions are called mentalfactors. 1
 So if we take any moment of mind that moment's knowingof the object or the entity of the object is called main mind,and that moment of mind's knowing the various features that makeup that object is called mental factors. 1
 This two fold division of mind into main mind and mental factorsis likened to a community. 1
 Within the community there is adirector whose job is to know what's happening in general in thecommunity, and also in that community there would be a cook whosejob it is to take care of the preparation of the food. 1
 So thedirector has to know something about what's going on in thekitchen but he doesn't have to know everything, that's the job ofthe cook. 1
 That's an example I heard a long time ago when I firststudied this stuff. 1
 It's a little bit illuminating but not much. 1
Rather I prefer the explanation that if you have a moment of mindthen it's different functions are being divided into main mindand mental factors, so while you can distinguish main minds frommental factors or one mental factor from another in the way ofdistinguishing one function from another function they're stillall functions of the same moment of mind. 1
  That main mind and it's attendant mental factors, have fivesimilarities to them. 1
 The first is that they have the same objectof observation, for example take the visual main mind and it'sattendant mental factors that are perceiving blue color. 1
 The bluecolor is the object of observation so the visual main mind andit's attendant mental factors are all taking as their object ofobservation the blue color. 1
 The second similarity is similar aspect, the aspect means when amind perceives an object then an aspect or an image of thatobject appears in that consciousness, such as when an object isplaced in front of a mirror an image of that object appears inthat mirror, in the case of the example that image is called areflection, in the case of consciousness that image is called anaspect. 1
 It is said for instance if you take a piece of clearcrystal like one of those nice pieces that are cut with differentfacets around them and it's clear, if you put that on some niceblue clothe then that crystal will appear to be blue in color. 1
Likewise when a consciousness is perceiving it's object it takeson the aspect of that object, this is not to say that when we areperceiving objects all we are perceiving is aspects in the mind,we are perceiving those objects. 1
 So the main mind and it's attendant mental factors have the sameaspect, they also occur simultaneously, therefore they do nothave a cause and affect relationship. 1
 A main mind and it'sattendant mental factors will have the same faculty as it'sdominant condition. 1
 For example a main visual consciousness andit's attendant mental factors both have the eye faculty as theirdominant condition. 1
 They are also said to be of similar substance, for example thefeeling mental factor that would be an attendant of a visualconsciousness would not be found in some other consciousness. 1
 The reason for mentioning those five similarities is to just getaway from the idea that main minds and mental factors can beoperating independently of each other at different times, they'reall of the same substance. 1
 There are six main minds from visual to mental main minds andthose are what constitute the CONSCIOUSNESS aggregate, the fifthof the five aggregates. 1
 The mental factors are what compose thesecond third and forth aggregate. 1
 How are we doing ? 1
 I know there's exhaustion, but so far are you following me? 1
 Q: Can you repeat the five please? 1
 A: Object of observation, Aspect, Time or duration, (theduration is simultaneous), dominant condition, similar substance. 1
 There are fifty one mental factors, I hope you have a lot of inkin your pens, actually there's a lot more than that but fifty onewere mentioned to just give you an idea of these variousfunctions in the mind. 1
 And these functions were identifiedprincipally from the perspective of what brings happiness andwhat brings suffering, and then from the perspective of someonein a meditative tradition. 1
 So from another perspective you may beable to find many other mental factors, and even from theperspective of this tradition there are other mental factorsbeside the list of fifty one. 1
 Those fifty one mental factors fall into five categories. 1
 The first is known as the omnipresent mental factors. 1
 The secondis the object ascertaining mental factors, then the virtuousmental factors, then the next is the root afflictions, the nextare the secondary afflictions and the last is the variable mentalfactors. 1
 So there was five plus one. 1
 There are five omnipresent mental factors according to either,the Abhidharmakosha or Abhidharmasamuccaya. 1
 The Abhidharmakoshahas a different list of five similarities. 1
 What I'm saying isthat the presentation I'm giving here is based upon certaintexts. 1
 Not all authoritative Buddhist scholars have the samepresentation. 1
 For instance the fifty one mental factors mentionedby Asanga in his text Abhidharmasamuccaya. 1
 His younger brotherVasubandhu wrote a text Abhidharmakosha, and in that text he onlymentioned forty eight mental factors. 1
 If I remember correctly onetext has a group of five similarities between main minds andmental factors that's different from the other ones, and one textsays there's five omnipresent mental factors and the other onesays there's ten. 1
 Lord Buddha is the one who gave the monks vows, he's the sourceof the monk's vows, there are a number of different traditionsthat have arisen over the years of such vows. 1
 For instance thetradition of the discipline that exists in Tibet is known as theMulasarvastivadan. 1
 In Thailand the tradition is known as the Theravadan tradition . 1
In the Mulasarvastivadan tradition there are 253 vows for a fullyordained monk, whereas in the Theravadan tradition there are 227. 1
So it seems like the Tibetans have more vows. 1
 So where did theyget them from if it was all based on The Buddha? 1
 Well in fact allof those are contained in 227 of the Theravadan tradition. 1
 Theyjust have a different way of enumerating them. 1
 So like that youhave these different scholars that have different ways ofenumerating these things, so we can't say the differencesindicate that one is right and the other is wrong, they usuallyhave their reasons for their own system. 1
 Omnipresent means that with every moment of mind there are thesefive omnipresent mental factors operating, therefore one can knowimplicitly that every moment of mind does not necessarily haveall 51 mental factors operating, but it will have these fiveomnipresent ones. 1
 There's feeling. 1
 When you hear the name don't immediately assumeyou know what it means because we employ names that already havecommon usage in our respective languages but they have specificdefinitions in this context. 1
 Here the definition of feeling is amental factor which is the nature of experience, individuallyexperiencing the fruition of virtuous and non virtuous actions. 1
All will become clear shortly. 1
 It's objects are pleasure, pain and that which is neitherpleasure or pain. 1
 So feeling is the mental factor thatexperiences pleasure, pain, and neutral experiences. 1
 Pleasure isthat which when it ceases you want to meet it again. 1
 Pain is thatexperience when it arises you want to separate from it, and theneutral experience is one that when it arises you neither want toseparate from it nor to meet it again. 1
 Experiences arise fromprevious actions that we have undertaken. 1
 It is the virtuousactions that produce pleasure and the non virtuous that producepain, in fact the words virtuous and non virtuous are used merelybecause one produces pleasure and the other produces pain. 1
 Whatwe want is pleasure or happiness, an action that brings that iscalled virtuous it's not because it was declared virtuous by anomnipotent being, it's just another word for good because it getsus what we want, whereas the non virtuous action produces pain. 1
 So this emphasizes then that our experiences of pleasure andpain do not come without causes, nor are their causes someunrelated entity. 1
 It's not that our pain or happiness issomething that is bestowed upon us by some deity, rather theycome from our former actions, so therefore we ourselves are thecreators of our future experience, and the person who was in ourprevious continuum was the creator of our present experiences. 1
 There is no need to visit a clairvoyant and pay a lot of moneyto know what you were in your former lifetime and to know whatyou're going to be in your next lifetime. 1
 Look at your presentexperience and you'll know what kind of person you were in thepast, look at your present activity and you'll know what kind ofexperience you'll have in the future. 1
 It's chilling! 1
 So, the knowledge, the certain knowledge that virtuous actionbrings happiness and non virtuous action brings suffering ishighly esteemed, having that certainty is something which ishighly esteemed. 1
 It's praised as the basis of all auspiciousdoctrines and it's called the correct view of all Buddhists. 1
Buddhists vary in what they call the correct view of reality, butthey all agree that virtuous actions bring happiness. 1
 Buddhistsdisagree about what they regard as the correct view of reality,reality is one of those subtle things and because it's so subtleThe Buddha gave very different accounts to the differentdisciples who came to hear him and consequently you havedifferent philosophical schools, but they all agree that virtuebrings happiness and non virtue brings suffering. 1
 A happy life,at the end of which one could say, "Not bad, it could have beenworse", is created by a virtuous action. 1
 The experiences thatoccur during the life, good or bad, are also created by actions,virtuous or non virtuous. 1
 We can develop conviction in this, butit is very difficult to know exactly what all those actions were. 1
 Okay so let's stop there today. 1
 Let's just sit quietly for a fewminutes, give it a chance to all sink in. 1
 So while listening to the subject, it's important to listen insuch a way that the teaching becomes in itself an antidote to thecauses of our problems. 1
 Among the numerous causes of problems wecan say there's two types: external and internal. 1
 The externalcauses of our problems are all familiar to us, such as badweather, obnoxious people, all of these kinds of things that wehear complaints about every day, we read about in the papers andsee on TV. 1
 and so forth. 1
 And if happiness was dependent on theelimination of these outer causes of problems then the whole taskwould be hopeless, because there's no definite guarantee that anyexternal condition will not become a cause of problems. 1
 Forinstance our best friends, they can turn against us, a beautifulhome can become a prison, a tropical beach can become boring, aholiday can become a death sentence. 1
 There's nothing to trust inthe external circumstances. 1
 Then there are the internal causes of problems. 1
 These internalcauses of problems such as anger, clinging, and so forth,jealousy, these sorts of minds. 1
 So long as we have suchdisturbing uncontrolled states of mind, then there's going to bemisery, but if such uncontrolled disturbing states of mind areeliminated then even poor external conditions can be easilytolerated. 1
 It's like the story of how shoes were invented inChina. 1
 There was an emperor who was raised in the plushenvironment of his palace, and he decided to go outside one dayinto his kingdom to see what it was like, he was not wearing anyshoes and while walking he stepped on something sharp. 1
 He'd neverexperienced such pain before and it made him very angry. 1
 When hereturned to the palace he summoned all his ministers, and hedeclared that they should cover his whole kingdom in leather,thinking that by so doing he would be able to go for a walkwithout stepping on something sharp. 1
 The ministers realized thatthis was hopelessly impractical and at the very least would causebankruptcy for the whole empire. 1
 One particularly bright ministerhad a good idea, he thought why not just cover the emperor's feetwith leather, it will accomplish the same purpose and be muchcheaper. 1
 The emperor accepted this idea and thus shoes wereinvented. 1
 The moral of this story is that if one tames ones owninner mind then no matter what external circumstances one mightmeet good or bad the mind remains stable and at peace. 1
 Thequestion is however, is such a thing possible? 1
 Nobody wants to beangry but despite that we all from time to time get angry, so howmight it be possible to eliminate anger? 1
 Similarly no one wantsto experience a great loss and yet often it happens that peopledue to being controlled by desire give up something of greatvalue for something of less value, as if they were temporarilyinsane. 1
 This is just the effect of desire. 1
 So although we onlywant to profit and never lose, still such desire can arise andovercome us. 1
 However such persons as the Buddha demonstrated that it was possible to eliminate these negative minds. 1
 So long as they arenot eliminated there will not be happiness. 1
 When they areeliminated there will be happiness. 1
 One thing that is definitelytrue is that we all want to be happy and not to suffer, thereforeat some time we have to pursue this path of eliminating the innercauses of suffering, by whatever means. 1
 So long as we avoid thatthen we will be contradicting our own inner wish. 1
 However eventhe Buddha had to admit it's not easy, and it takes a lot oftime. 1
 For instance once He generated the spirit of Enlightenment,Bodhicitta it still took three countless great aeons to become aBuddha. 1
 I don't know how many years constitute a great aeon, Iknow that countless is the largest number in the Indian system ofcounting. 1
 It might be similar to that mythological number inEnglish known as zillion which means huge, so a zillion timesthree aeons, and that was after he had developed a spontaneousBodhicitta and was a real Bodhisattva. 1
 This was after He hadspent lifetimes in pursuit of higher states of mind. 1
 Giving upkingdoms to meditate in solitude in the mountains, dressed intree bark, internally generating a conviction in paths leading toliberation, conviction in karma, conviction in the existence offuture lives, a dedication to the welfare of others, having moreconcern for others than himself. 1
 So he was already a saint beforeHe became a Bodhisattva, and yet it still took an awful long timeto become a Buddha. 1
 So if you feel like it's an enormous undertaking you're right,and if you feel like it's too much to accomplish in this lifetimeyou're also right. 1
 So generally what's done is that a personlooks at their worst fault and tries to minimize it, and if atthe end of the life you've had any success at all at weakeningthat thought you can be satisfied, and that's a realisticapproach to the spiritual path. 1
 If you think that you won't besatisfied at the end of the life unless you've some remarkableattainments like clairvoyance, passing through walls, flying, orwith the attitude that is completely disillusioned with the wholeof cyclic existence, Bodhicitta or the correct view of reality. 1
If that's what it will take to make you feel satisfied with yourlife you might be disappointed. 1
 For instance if Bodhicitta is thegoal to achieve in this lifetime any time you desire somethingjust for yourself you've failed. 1
 For instance in the lunch line,at the end of the lunch line there's the plate with all the fruiton it and they're all oranges and apples but only one banana andif you have the thought " I hope nobody takes that banana beforeI get there! 1
 " You've failed ! 1
 Or when you walk into the cinemaand all the seats in the middle are taken and you get upsetyou've failed. 1
 So how miserable such an aspiration will make one. 1
We shouldn't put these time limits on ourselves. 1
 Generatingrealizations is not like boiling an egg. 1
 You can be sure thatafter four minutes you've got a hard boiled egg, but it's unsurehow many years of your practice is going to produce arealization. 1
 We read in the biographies of former saints ofsomebody who suddenly gains a high realization while choppingwood or by looking at a stone as they're walking on the road. 1
This might produce the wrong view that at any moment as you goabout your ordinary daily life a realization will dawn withouthaving done anything to create it. 1
 We don't know how manylifetimes those saints in biographies spent practicing. 1
 You canbe sure there were a lot. 1
 Take the great yogi Milarepa forinstance. 1
 Before he met his guru Marpa he killed over thirtypeople, and yet in that very life he became a Buddha. 1
 That mightgenerate the thought that well I haven't killed anybody so Ishould be able to become a Buddha too, easier, faster. 1
 Of coursewhen you read Milarepa's biography you discover that he killedthose thirty people by practicing black magic. 1
 He could makeanimals hallucinate. 1
 Can you stop a dog from barking just throughthe power of your mind ? 1
 He could cause hail storms. 1
 Could youmake a cloud cover the sun for just one minute of shade? 1
 Themaster who taught Milarepa black magic regarded Milarepa as thebest disciple he'd ever had, and then when he entrusted himselfto Marpa, Marpa worked him harder than a mule and yet Milarepanever generated any contempt towards Marpa. 1
 He had some prettyunusual qualities that he was born with. 1
 How come he was bornwith those qualities and not me ? 1
 In a former lifetime, the lifetime before he was Milarepa he was a Kadampa Geshe, given up theaffairs of that life, dedicated himself to studying and practice,had generated at least the correct intellectual view of reality. 1
So even to do that he must have had some great qualities to bringinto that lifetime, which he must have cultivated in a formerlifetime and so on. 1
 So while we're listening to a talk on the dharma which isinformation that is by it's very nature stimulating the goodqualities and opposing the bad qualities, then we should at leasttry in this occasion as much as possible to cultivate theantidotes to the inner sources of our problems. 1
 There's all kindsof things that we have probably thought we should practice, suchas practicing using ourselves as a resource for other'shappiness. 1
 That's not necessarily a very common aspiration butit's a very interesting one. 1
 When I was a child I used to pray all the time, not that I was alittle angel or anything. 1
 I used to pray to get the things Iwanted. 1
 I'd pray to get toy guns, and all those kinds of prayersthat kids usually make, and my prayers would often take the formof "If I was God I would certainly give me these things. 1
" Well as I got older I stopped relying on such an omnipotentbeing and thought that it might be better if I became the kind ofperson who could supply others with the things that they neededbecause if you see something that's missing why trust somebodyelse to fill it? 1
 Why not do it oneself? 1
 So the problem is that there's just not enough help. 1
 There's so many problems in the world and there's just so muchneed, and if you look around you see so many people who arerequesting help. 1
 So we could join them and be just one othervoice in that great Sea of Plea! 1
 Or one could be trying to becomethe answer, that which fulfills those supplications, andincreasingly make oneself a better and better resource for thewelfare of others. 1
 Well a thought might arise that the needs or demands of othersare endless and it might seem quite a daunting task to becomesomething that can respond effectively. 1
 Well The Buddha is prettyincredible, but that's how one becomes a Buddha so a person whohas dedicated themselves to become a Buddha for the sake of allbeings has a great appreciation of his or her capability. 1
 So ifone's having the attitude, "Oh I couldn't do that. 1
" then one isfar from generating the thought of becoming Enlightened. 1
 So evenif it's just using the past Buddhas as a reason one can justthink well I can become a Buddha because they did, because onceupon a time they were just like me and if they can develop suchperfect qualities then I can too. 1
 When I was a teenager I wasinvolved in sports. 1
 It was my path to liberation from studies andI remember before we would actually play an opposing team ourcoach used to give us a pep talk, encouragement. 1
 There was oneteam we were going to play against, they were a lot bigger thanus, and in American football it matters if they're bigger thanyou. 1
 I remember something that he said to encourage us, he said "You can beat these guys, they're no different from you they puttheir pants on one leg at a time just like you. 1
" The Buddhas wereat one time just like ourselves, they'd get completely carriedaway by their delusion just like we do. 1
 They'd be only concernedwith the happiness of this life just like us, but despite allthat they were able to achieve such an exulted accomplishment, sowe can do the same thing. 1
 The very teachings we have at ourdisposal are the same teachings that they rely on, as far as theexplanations and techniques that are available, nothing ismissing. 1
 It's not as if there was once a certain type oftechnique to achieve Enlightenment and now there's not. 1
 End side 1 tape 3 In fact there may be more techniques available now than therewere in the past, so from the outside everything is there. 1
 Nowall we have to do from our side is generate the determination andkeep it. 1
 It's not easy, but so long as we don't generate such adetermined attitude, or if we let go of our determination thenwe're only undermining our wish to be happy and be free fromsuffering. 1
 Okay so yesterday we finished with FEELING, the mental factor offeeling. 1
 We went through the form aggregate of which there were 5physical sense powers mentioned. 1
 There were the objects of thefive sense consciousnesses and there was the form which is theobject of mental consciousness. 1
 So we went into detail yesterdayof what all those eleven things were. 1
 The second aggregate is that of Feeling, which is the experienceof the maturation of karma of which there are three types,pleasure, pain and neutral feelings and there are some otherdivisions of feeling, for instance there is the feeling which isthe base of attachment, and this is a feeling that accompaniesattachment to the attributes or qualities of the desire realm. 1
 The desire realm is one of three realms. 1
 These are called desirerealm, form realm and formless realm. 1
 Here we should understandrealm as a state of mind. 1
 So the desire realm is a state of mindin which there is desire for the pleasant objects of the senses. 1
So we know what the objects of the senses are, I mentioned thoseyesterday. 1
 Visual forms, sounds, odors etc. 1
 and amongst pleasantand unpleasant giving rise pleasurable feeling and painfulfeeling. 1
 So the desire realm is the state of mind that regardssuch pleasurable feelings as the best. 1
 So as long as one isregarding such objects in high esteem then one is a person in thedesire realm. 1
 Form and formless realms refer to states of mind that have lostsuch esteem for the objects of the senses. 1
 I shouldn't say lostit, they've transcended it by seeing the shortcomings of suchexperiences and seeing the superior qualities of the experiencesof meditation. 1
 The form realm gets it's name from the objects ofmeditation having form. 1
 The formless realm mentality is said tobe higher than the form realm, it has transcended the mentalityof the form realm by seeing the shortcomings of such a mentalityand seeing the superior qualities of the formless realm. 1
 So as there is one feeling which is called the base ofattachment, accompanying the attachment to the attributes of thedesire realm there is another feeling which is the base ofdeliverance, and this is a feeling that accompanies the mentalityof the form and formless realm, that being the feeling which isthe base of deliverance. 1
 So the feeling that is the base ofattachment is pleasant feeling, pleasurable feeling with respectto objects of the senses and this causes the clinging attachmentto arise. 1
 Such a pleasurable feeling is viewed unrealistically astrue happiness. 1
 It is not true happiness. 1
 One reason why it isnot true happiness is because it can't last, but because it isseen as true happiness the mind grasps onto it and will not letit go and will do anything to keep in touch with it. 1
 This is themajor obstacle for the human being, of all the various faultsthis is the main one. 1
 In a thanka known as "the Wheel of Life"--that last one hanging up there, it is often painted with aBuddha in each of the five or six realms of cyclic existence andeach of those Buddhas is carrying something that represents theantidote to the main suffering of the respective realm, and theBuddha in the human realm is carrying the staff and the bowl of amonk whereas in the hungry ghost realm he's carrying water andfood. 1
 That is because the hungry ghosts suffer from hunger andthirst mainly, and for the humans it's because humans suffer fromdesire. 1
 That's not such a gross generalization because if youeliminate the conditions of war and illness and poverty, thoseextremes of human suffering that you find in the world, then yousee so many human beings that are destroyed by their desire. 1
Sometimes marriages fail because of desire for somebody otherthan the partner, because of adultery, and that may result in oneor both of the people who are married falling from the level ofstatus in the society that they were in. 1
 Or politicians who werehonored in society, well how about supreme court judges, highcourt judges who are honored in society, but because of theirsexual misconduct then there's a big scandal and they fall fromtheir position. 1
 Teachers who have sexual relations with studentsand then lose their position as teachers and so on. 1
 And these areall people who have plenty of food, clothing and shelter andmedicine and all that stuff. 1
 So it's like all those people who are trying to end war wherethey are, just like at Sarajevo in Bosnia Hercegovina. 1
 Well oncethey eliminate the war then they can look forward to sufferinglike every one else. 1
 Right now they're suffering in a gross way,but then comes the suffering of the uncontrolled desire, wherethere's always something missing. 1
 So this is something that weall try to transcend and generally the main way in which we dothat is by weighing the disadvantages against whatever benefitwe'd get if we followed the desire. 1
 If the disadvantages arereally horrendous and the advantage of following the desire isvery small, then it's much easier to give up that desire. 1
Unfortunately it's not always that clear, and so consequentlyit's difficult to give up the desire and it stays, and then onejust has to endure it. 1
 So there arises the thought "I wonder ifthere is a state of mind free of such desire, where it justdoesn't arise and one could just cruise through this life likethe wind. 1
 You touch things but leave them as they are notcarrying them with you just free". 1
 There's a Zen story. 1
 Two Zen monks a master and his disciplecome up to a river, it's an old story you may have heard itbefore. 1
 There's a beautiful woman who's trying to cross the riverbut she needs help. 1
 So the master picks her up and carries heracross the river. 1
 According to the discipline he shouldn't betouching a woman and this is what the disciple was thinking, soon the other side of the river the master and disciple carried ontheir journey but after sometime the disciple couldn't holdhimself back anymore and he said to the master " How could you pick up that woman? 1
" and the master said " The important thing is to put her down when the river wascrossed, which I did, you on the other hand are still carryingher. 1
" So can you imagine being free of desire? 1
 How free you would be! 1
You could enjoy anything but put it down with no second thoughtsand I'm not talking about the attitude of a cad, I don't knowwhat you'd call it. 1
 I'm not talking about the attitude ofsomebody who has love affairs and then just disposes of them likethat, one night stands. 1
 I'm not talking about that. 1
 There'snothing high about that, that's somebody who's really possessedby desire, they can't get satisfaction. 1
 I'm talking aboutsomething quite different. 1
 Freedom from desire exists, you get itwhen you enter the form realm, when you generate this form realmmentality, the desire for the objects of the senses doesn't ariseany more. 1
 To generate a form realm mentality requires a cultivation ofconcentration, the type of concentration where you can staysingle pointedly on an object for hours. 1
 It generates it's ownkind of mental and physical ecstasy, which eclipses the pleasureof the desire realm. 1
 Unfortunately it's not very easy tocultivate. 1
 Well at least it's nice to know it's possible, butbecause it's not so very easy, there's very few people who havethat freedom from desire and consequently even those people whomake it their profession of being desireless have a hard time. 1
That's when we here of all the scandals in religious orders. 1
Their main way of controlling desire is just like everybodyelse's. 1
 The only advantage that they may have is the amount thatthey separate themselves from the objects of desire, in forinstance cloisters. 1
 Usually the scandals occur with those peoplewho don't have such separation. 1
 So in the good old days concentration was easier to cultivatethey say, I'm not so sure, I think it was always a bit difficult. 1
In a monastery of a thousand people there were probably only ahandful who could do it, but the thing is all of us have the sameproblem, so as long as we have the pleasurable feeling thenattachment can arise unless you've abandoned attachment. 1
 So letssay we have attachment, what it likes is pleasurable feelings, sowhenever pleasurable feeling arises, there's danger ofattachment. 1
 If attachment arises you've lost your freedom. 1
Usually I don't buy many things, consequently I don't have muchinterest in shopping so when I walk down a street of shops theimpression in my mind is just things, but when I do go shopping,for instance to buy a computer, then if I walk by a shop thatsells computers even after I've already bought a computer I can'tjust walk by that shop thinking thing. 1
 My mind gets stuck there Ihave to stop walking, look at all the things, especially theprice to see if I paid more for mine. 1
 I might get upset, all ofthese things that didn't have to happen. 1
 So that's a simpleexample, there are many other examples, where, when theattachment arises your mind gets stuck to the object. 1
 Thenthroughout the day your mind keeps on that object, it comes upagain and again, you find your mind plotting in order to get thatobject. 1
 You find that your voice of reason is getting weaker andweaker, your voice of cleverness is getting louder and louder, soyou're stuck, you've lost freedom, therefore The Buddha said wehave to guard the doors of our senses. 1
 So it's not that a pleasurable feeling is negative, it's theattachment that's negative, the feeling has no ethical quality. 1
Pleasurable feelings aren't virtuous, painful feelings aren't nonvirtuous. 1
 It's just that pleasurable feelings tend to give riseto this mind of clinging attachment and painful feelings giverise to anger. 1
 It's also interesting to keep in mind that if apleasurable feeling is the result of virtuous karma, if that'sthe case then the object which was a cause of the pleasurablefeeling, enabled this pleasurable feeling to occur, such assunshine. 1
 From one point of view, the pleasurable feelingexperiencing the sunshine, depends upon the sunshine, but thesource of that pleasurable feeling being pleasurable was aprevious virtuous action. 1
 It's like you can't have a crop withouta field, so keeping that in mind, rather than regarding thevarious objects as sources of happiness, one should pursuevirtuous action with the same kind of enthusiasm that we use topursue those pleasurable objects. 1
 Okay so then the next aggregate is DISCRIMINATION. 1
 This is alsoa mental factor and is an omnipresent mental factor and this oneapprehends the uncommon signs of an object. 1
 Each object hascharacteristics which it shares in common with other objects andcharacteristics that are unique to it, and it is those uniquecharacteristics that enable us to differentiate one object fromanother. 1
 So discrimination is the function of the mind thatapprehends those unique characteristics, and there isdiscrimination that we find accompanying sense consciousnessesand those accompanying mental consciousnesses, and of the mentalconsciousnesses there are the conceptual consciousnesses and itis the conceptual consciousness of a person who knows a languagethat has the discrimination that can differentiate objects bymeans of names. 1
 So it is this discrimination mental factor thatapplies names, identifies objects with names. 1
 Sensoryconsciousness doesn't name objects but it can nonetheless beclear about different objects. 1
 It can clearly differentiate sayyellow from red. 1
 Discrimination enables us to recognize and differentiate theobjects that make up reality. 1
 This is the one that functions when sensory consciousness isoperating and on the basis of having clear and distinctperceptions a conceptual discrimination mental factor will namedifferent objects and similarly when hearing true words, then inyour mind you're identifying certain things, and giving names tothose things you're identifying and that's also discrimination. 1
Also when you identify something as good by depending upon ithaving the signs and the reasons that's also discrimination. 1
 So there's a discrimination, a reasoned discrimination. 1
 This isone that is skilled in relating names with their objects and alsothat is able to observe the appropriate qualities such as soundis impermanent. 1
 Also there's a discrimination that has a clearaspect and a clear object. 1
 This is opposed to an unreasoneddiscrimination, such as one that is unskilled in relating nameswith their meaning, such as a child who is yet to learn anylanguage, or a discrimination that thinks that sound ispermanent, or a discrimination that lacks any clear subjectiveaspect or object. 1
 That last type of unreasoned discrimination is thediscrimination that operates in the highest level of the formlessrealm, where there is no clear aspect and no clear objectappearing to the mind. 1
 It's really not a very useful state togenerate, but it comes from the belief that discrimination, thisfaculty of discrimination is a source of the problems. 1
 It's not uncommon to read criticism of discrimination. 1
 Forinstance in a number of spiritual texts that would describe theultimate state as somehow a unified state. 1
 With such expressionsas all is one. 1
 Now of course discrimination differentiates,identifies and differentiates, which seems to contradict an allis one experience, and that description, based upon the meredescription of some high state of mind as all is one, somepsychologists have misunderstood what that high state of mind is. 1
For instance in child psychology there is a recognition that asan infant, the child doesn't discriminate between subject andobject. 1
 A clear subjective ego awareness is yet to arise in thechild. 1
 This is sometimes called oceanic awareness. 1
 In one placeCarl Jung thought that the high realizations of these yogis wasrecovering that state of mind that is possessed by the infant. 1
Which is elevating a primitive consciousness to an exulted state. 1
(That's not what he said), and in another place Freud referred tosuch high experiences of the yogis as infantile regressionsthinking that they were non other than what the infant has. 1
 Thiswould be devaluing an exulted state and making it a primitivestate. 1
 So there's a big difference between lacking discriminationand transcending discrimination. 1
 So the infant doesn't havediscrimination of subject and object. 1
 The yogi does have suchdiscrimination, but within that discrimination has been able todiscriminate something that transcends both subject and objectand in order to do that, you have to have even more powerfuldiscrimination than other people. 1
 So far from achieving highstates of mind by eliminating discrimination, such states of mindare achieved by making one's mind that much more powerful. 1
 Another type of discrimination is called discrimination of thesmall, which is discrimination in the mind of a person in thedesire realm. 1
 There's another discrimination known asdiscrimination of the vast, which is discrimination in the mindof a person in the form realm, so from the point of view of theform realm the experiences of the desire realm are small andquite insignificant. 1
 Then there's discrimination of thelimitless, and this is discrimination that is found in the firsttwo states of the formless realm, where one discriminateslimitless space and limitless consciousness. 1
 And then there'sdiscrimination of nothingness, which is third state of theformless realm, where one doesn't discriminate anything and thatstate is like being unconscious. 1
 Also a mistake. 1
 These differentstates of mind have been achieved by people who are striving hardfor liberation, and in their striving having discovered that thesecret for liberation was in the mind itself, or the key forliberation was in the mind itself. 1
 They stumbled upon thetremendous capacity for concentration and having this amazingtool tried to achieve liberation merely by it. 1
 Concentration thatenabled them to turn off parts of their mind, trying to achieveliberation by making themselves unconscious for instance. 1
 There'sno pain if there's no experience. 1
 Experimenting with all kinds ofmanipulation of the mind with concentration, and by means of thisthey could achieve what's known as the peak of cyclic existence,in which all of the various disturbing negative thoughts of thedesire realm, form realm and the formless realm below the peak,cease functioning. 1
 They become free of all that. 1
 The only problemis that faults of the peak itself remain, and it doesn't haveanything higher than the peak to get rid of those faults, unlessyou use something else besides concentration. 1
 The thing that theymiss is the wisdom perceiving emptiness and if you have thewisdom realizing emptiness you can totally abandon all the faultsof cyclic existence even without having to generate such a highpower of concentration. 1
 So that's the discrimination aggregate. 1
 Any questions ? 1
 Q: As you explained it seems as though we are a community ofdifferent tendencies. 1
 So how is it possible to have this feelingof oneness ? 1
 And this feeling of a self of permanence? 1
 A: So first of all seeing our self as one thing. 1
 This is a verycommon phenomena to think of and it comes from our capacity toconceptualize by means of which we can categorize differentthings, for instance a crowd of people is actually many peoplebut we can differentiate one crowd from another crowd. 1
 We canhave one crowd or many crowds and that can have some practicalfunctions, so this capacity is something that is useful. 1
 So forinstance we are composed of a body and a mind. 1
 And when we saybody, body includes many things, but rather than having to listall those things for which there's no end because there are justcountless atoms in the body and even those things we can see,that is those things we can see under a knife of discriminationare still too many to mention. 1
 So we have this capacity to thinkbody by means of which we can be including all the parts of thebody or just some of the parts of the body. 1
 and also forourselves it can be useful to refer to that which possesses thebody and mind as in the expressions "my body" and "my mind". 1
 Wedon't mean that we are something that can get up and walk awayleaving our body and mind behind, the way the owner of a car canget up and leave the car, but it's just a way that we organizeour experiences and describe our actions, so this ability toconstruct things with thoughts can be useful, and by means ofthis we can differentiate one thing from another. 1
 The problemoccurs is when we take the thought constructs and forget that infact they are thought constructs and start thinking that theyhave an independent life of their own. 1
 And based upon the beliefthat it has an independent life of it's own and also based uponthe fact that it doesn't appear to change that one can view it aspermanent, we refer to ourselves as I or me, using those samepronouns day in and day out, and also thinking of ourselves inthe past, thinking I did this then, and referring to ourselves inthe future I will do this, when, and thus it appears that this Iis not changing at all, it is exactly the same. 1
 And further more,if it exists with a life of it's own, then it would have to bepermanent. 1
 It wouldn't be depending on anything else such ascauses, to exist, but when we analyze this point closer, we seethat although the name may remain the same we have indeedchanged. 1
 In fact it would be a sad state if we remained exactlythe same as we were when we were children. 1
 The thing is that weseldom analyze and just take things as they appear. 1
 So thisperson, the person, ourself, which is just a thought construct,having functions in terms of practical discrimination andlanguage appears to have a life of it's own, and then it isactually apprehended as having a life of it's own. 1
 Thisapprehension is the ignorance or misknowledge which wasrecognized by The Buddha as being the root source of all thesuffering. 1
 Is there anything more to that question that I couldaddress. 1
 It's good ? 1
 Okay ! 1
 Q: You described the different levels of concentration accordingto each realm, can you repeat them please ? 1
 A: The interesting one would be form and formless realm. 1
 Firstthere's desire realm, that has concentration but it's notdistinguished, that is it is not special. 1
 And the discriminationassociated with that one is called the discrimination of thesmall, that is the objects it can recognize are small in qualityin comparison to the objects that are recognized in the form andformless realm. 1
 Then with the form and formless realm we start tofind very special types of concentration. 1
 In the form realm thediscrimination there is known as the discrimination of the vast,that is the objects that are identified in the form realm arevastly superior to those of the desire realm. 1
 Then the formlessrealm is said to be superior to the form realm because it iswithout the faults that are found in the form realm, and withinthe formless realm there are different types of discrimination. 1
In the formless realm there's four levels known as limitlessspace, limitless consciousness, nothingness and the fourth iscalled neither sensation nor no sensation. 1
 That fourth level isalso called the peak of cyclic existence. 1
 The discriminationfound in the first two of those is known as the discrimination ofthe limitless and then that found in third level is known as thediscrimination of nothingness and the discrimination found in thefourth level is a type of unreasoned discrimination. 1
 It is thetype in which there is no clear subjective aspect and no clearobject of observation. 1
 So let's take a break. 1
 The next aggregate is the one known variously as Compositionalfactors or Intention and all of the other mental factors areincluded in this aggregate. 1
 I'm using by the way, volition,intention and will synonymously. 1
 We'll begin then with this mental factor of Intention which somepeople consider to be the most important of the mental factors,and it is defined as the mental factor that moves and directs themind that accompanies it to it's object, and it has the functionof engaging the mind in virtue, non virtue, or those activitiesthat are neither virtuous or non virtuous. 1
 It's something which is extremely powerful, it causes the mindto engage in an object helplessly, like metal filings have tohelplessly follow a magnet. 1
 If you drag a magnet over metalfilings then they just have to follow it, they have no choice. 1
Sometimes it happens that a person notices that they're just notin control of their life, they would like to go in a particulardirection but they are helplessly going in another direction. 1
That can be striking because it makes you wonder, who's incharge? 1
 We have these expressions "this is my body and this is mymind. 1
" "I want to do this, I don't want to do that ". 1
 " So howcome my body and mind don't go the way I want them to go ? 1
"Remember when I described this I, this person, as a mere mentalconstruct, aside from qualities that we might conceptually giveit, it doesn't have any qualities itself. 1
 For instance when youhave the thought I am walking, it's ability to walk is actuallyborrowed from the body or in other words because the body iswalking one can have the thought I am walking. 1
 It's not like thebody is walking and also I am walking and we're sort of walkinghand in hand. 1
 And likewise when there is the thought I am goingto do it, in fact it is the mental factor that is thinking do it,that is the impulse that produces the activity and on the basisof that impulse we can have the thought "I" am doing it. 1
 So it'sthat impulse that's the actual creator of things, and that's whyit's considered so important, because there's also the I that'sdesignated by depending upon feeling, such as I feel pain or Ifeel pleasure, so we can have such thoughts because there's theFeeling mental factor experiencing pain or pleasure and thenthere is this conceptual process that invents this characterknown as ""I" on the basis of that. 1
 Now the experiences then are derived from this creator functionof intention. 1
 We would like to have it that the only kind offeelings we would have would be the pleasurable sort as the basisof our thought "I". 1
 In order for that to happen then this creatorintention has to be only going in a virtuous direction and thuswe can only be a virtuous person if our mental factor intentionis directing us virtuously. 1
 Now is the mental factor Intention susceptible to persuasion ? 1
Of course! 1
 It doesn't exist on it's own independent of the othermental factors. 1
 Often it is something that arises after aconsiderable amount of thinking. 1
 Like if you have to make adecision about whether you go on a long trip or not. 1
 There youuse your faculties of discrimination and so forth to weigh theadvantages and disadvantages of such a trip. 1
 When you think aboutbeing in such a place a pleasurable experience may arise causingthe desire to meet with such an object which also influences thethinking process. 1
 There might be a painful experience associatedwith the place you're staying in, causing the thought to separatefrom it as soon as possible. 1
 This can also influence the thinkingprocess and at a certain point all of this thinking concludes inthis intention to do it. 1
 Then that intention starts taking themind in that direction and at that point you're just along forthe ride, like a surfer on a wave, or more accurately a thoughtconstruct designated on the basis of this intention that's inmotion. 1
 Every conscious action we do has intention going in either avirtuous or a non virtuous way or a neutral way. 1
 So we are actingcontinuously, throughout the day we have numerous intentions thatwe set, and those intentions don't necessarily cease immediately. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
. 1
Let's say in my example of going to a place the intention ofgoing to that place can take you to that place but it is not thecase that that process of intentionality totally stops once youget there. 1
 That whole process is something that's remembered inthe mind and it can repeat itself, and has many differenteffects. 1
 Anyway this whole thing is the subject of karma, so I'mgoing to have to move on. 1
 But for instance you can have effectseven after this life, for instance at the time of death it's saidthat as a person goes through the death process they can havenumerous visions, people who have had near death experiencesreport having had the experience of their whole life flashing infront of them. 1
 And having seen their life flash in front of themit causes to make some evaluation. 1
 Certain things in their lifestand out more than others, they identify more strongly with acertain type of behavior than other behaviors, that they witnessin such visions. 1
 Or in using the language of this description ofIntention, there arises from it's latent state, a process ofintentionality, that had been operating in the past but then wentlatent, and then due to the circumstances of death it becameactive again, and due to the association that we have with thethought "I" in relation to that intentionality process, there yougo again another ride, but in this case the intentionality as ittakes "you" the mere thought construct on the basis of it. 1
 It'staking you without your body because you've left that behind now. 1
However it may be the case for this intentionality to get to it'sobject, to get to it's aim it will need a physical body. 1
 But itonly uses a physical body which is necessary to get to it's aim,and there's a great many varieties of physical bodies. 1
 If youraim (in my other example of intention) of going on a trip was togo south in the winter and that was the intentionality thathappens to resurrect itself at the time of death, then maybe allyou need to accomplish that again is the body of a bird, becausethe mind is not linked with any specific type of body. 1
 The bodyis only a vehicle for the mind, and each body due to it's ownnature, allows certain kinds of mental experiences to take place. 1
In some ways we could say that the rebirth is the dominantcondition for the experience of life, that is the mind comingtogether with a certain kind of body then gives that mind accessto a certain kind of experience. 1
 The unique characteristic of thehuman body is that it's nervous system supports an unlimiteddevelopment of intelligence. 1
 Therefore the human body is the bestsort of body for the person who is aspiring for liberation,because in order to get liberation you have to develop thispenetrative insight into the way things exist. 1
 This doesn't meanjust any kind of human body. 1
 It has to be a human body that hasall it's senses working properly, and a human body in a place inwhich it is not too easy and not too difficult to find thenecessities of life. 1
 It can't be too difficult because if that'sthe case you never have any free time to explore such questionsas why do things exist the way they do ? 1
 And we know such peoplethat just dismiss such thoughts as useless philosophy and theyhave to get on with their work of making money and supportingtheir various responsibilities. 1
 But if life is too easy then thatis also a problem, because the mind gets sluggish, and thusthere's no incentive for the cultivation of intelligence, so ithas to be somewhat challenging as human beings rely upon theirintelligence to survive. 1
 That's why the practice of a person whois mainly trying to achieve a higher rebirth consists of thepractice of ethics. 1
 There are many types of ethics, one type of ethics is the ethicsof restraint, which is restraining yourself from an action thatwill bring you some immediate pleasure, because you recognize inthe long run it's going to be problematic, and although theexperience of denying oneself this pleasure is painful, one cansee that in the long run there is going to be great benefit. 1
 Soeven an animal can see what's immediately in front of it, so inthis case for the person practicing ethics what's immediately infront of this person is pleasure to be had and pain if I don'ttake it. 1
 What enables a person to restrain themselves and not bemiserable is the ability to imagine something in the future whichthe animals can't do. 1
 That requires quite a development ofintelligence. 1
 So one then is exercising this intelligence in order to get agreater benefit even at the cost of a short term sacrifice. 1
 Thatis especially the case for the person who is sacrificing thepotential experiences of this life in order to get even betterthings in the future life, because this life is tangible, it issomething that you see and you have, whether there is a futurelife you can't tell by seeing, tasting and smelling. 1
 You can onlyknow that with intelligence. 1
 So for the person who is trying toget a good rebirth and avoid a bad rebirth, all of this is donethrough the power of their intelligence and this person isputting a higher priority on the use of their intelligence thanjust the instincts of taking what is pleasurable and trying toget rid of what is immediately painful. 1
 So such a person islikely then to be reborn with the type of a body that willsupport the further development of such intelligence. 1
 They wouldget for instance, a human body, in a place where they would haveaccess to the type of education where they could learn abouthigher and higher states of happiness. 1
 Any questions about that? 1
 I wish I was wrong ! 1
 But I think that's what the dharma says. 1
 That's what The Buddhahad in mind. 1
 Even though I hate to hear it ! 1
 Due to the kindnessof my teachers I just can't help myself but I have to say thosethings. 1
 They say that the dharma is like a mirror, in that a mirror issomething that you use to see if you have any dirt on your face,so that you can then wash it off, and similarly the dharma issomething that you can use to see if you have any faults, anymistaken conduct and so forth. 1
 Then you can eliminate thosefaults and change your conduct. 1
 So the fact that one might squirma little bit or feel uncomfortable when one is hearing the dharmadoesn't mean that it is wrong. 1
 Q: Is it possible that Volition can bring us to activitieshelplessly and is it possible to influence the volition and inthis case is this influence an intention ? 1
 A: There are many other mental factors beside intention, and forinstance when I was talking about generating the intention to gosomewhere there was a whole thought process that led up to that. 1
It is not an absolute that a specific intention has to arise,it's not like a whole package ready to go, it's dependent uponvarious conditions, for instance through the power ofintelligence you can determine that the aim of a specificintention is undesirable and therefore you don't allow thatintention to arise. 1
 Also the intention is usually taking placewithin a context of a person and that person's environment, andso that person has various likes and dislikes and then theintention is the means by which that person is able to get whatthey want and avoid what they don't want, so the force of theintention is dependent upon the way in which that person isperceived. 1
 For instance if you're dreaming, and you're chased bysome monster in the dream, then the intention to get away fromthat monster is dependent upon you believing that you are real inthat dream. 1
 Then the intention to get away doesn't arise because there isnobody who has to really escape from any thing reallyfrightening. 1
 So like that the Buddha discovered that the degreeof reality that we attribute to ourselves is more than isactually there, and when we discover that we are empty of thatextra reality, then all of the intentionalities that were createdin the past that were dependent upon this exaggerated view ofoneself no longer have any control over oneself. 1
 That's when oneis liberated. 1
 That's why the whole thrust of The Buddha'steachings, or the emphasis of The Buddha's teachings is thediscovery of the actuality, of the true reality of the person. 1
Sometimes when people hear about the teaching of karma therecomes in their mind the idea of predetermination, as if they arelocked in an experience or a process that you can't do anythingabout, but as intention is something that arises on it's causesand it's conditions, and these causes and conditions are notthings that are fixed, we can get control over this karma. 1
 Inother words we can get control over this intention. 1
 Did you have a question? 1
 (Complicated question asked)_ It's only when you study a lot that it all becomes clear becausethe Buddha dharma has so many topics within it. 1
 We have anexpression that you can't see the forest because of the trees,which means that when you're in a forest and you see theindividual trees there's so many of them the idea of forestdoesn't come to mind and likewise as we're studying all thedetails of the dharma a unified view, an overview doesn't come tomind. 1
 So for instance yesterday I talked about how there must bea continuation of mind and although it wasn't everything that canbe said about it I'm not going to spend any more time on it. 1
 What you said today about the possibility of there being animalmind, preta mind and so forth, that's true. 1
 Just as it's the casethat a human being can generate a mind of the form realm andformless realm, which are also actual states of rebirth because ahuman being can generate the certain types of concentration thatare concentrations of the form and formless realms, so also thehuman being can generate animal minds, hungry ghost minds andjust as a person takes rebirth in form and formless realmsbecause of generating the form and formless concentrations, sothe human being can take rebirth as an animal because ofgenerating an animalistic mentality. 1
 There are certain times inour life where these states of mind appear evidently and we evenhave expressions for that like a person is behaving unreasonablyfearfully we may say they're "chicken" and there's a lot of theseexpressions, animal names that are given to certain types ofbehavior, and that's because that behavior doesn't conform withthe dignity of the human being. 1
 So if one dies with that type of mentality active then you getthe body that best accords with that mentality and likewise withliberation. 1
 Liberation is a state of peace, one has been pacifiedof the disturbing negative thoughts, and being forceduncontrollably to take rebirth. 1
 So the source of the disturbingnegative thoughts and karma is the ignorant misconception of theself. 1
 So when the person through the cultivation of a specialinsight into reality is able to completely abandon thatconception of self and thus all the other afflictions and karmaby virtue of eliminating their foundation, then that person issaid to be liberated even though they are still a human being,and after death who knows where that person goes. 1
 Their mentalcontinuum doesn't cease. 1
 They still have the experience ofliberation. 1
 The continuum of mind is not something that isdependent upon ignorance, as ignorance is mind that is distorted,so all we're doing is correcting the distortion. 1
 So all of thisexperience like our whole life experience here, is like when wegot off the highway to get on a shortcut and we got lost, and itbecame a nightmare. 1
 So when you get liberated it's like findingyour way back home again. 1
 What you do there, we who are stilllost can only just guess. 1
 Remember the definition of mind, clear and knowing. 1
 Mind,consciousness, are synonymous and main minds and mental factorsare minds, because they are clear and knowing. 1
 They are productsas we know. 1
 The visual consciousness for example arises bydepending upon a visual object, an eye sense faculty and theimmediately preceding moment of consciousness. 1
 So then the mind that we have now what is it's original cause(our present mind today thinking in this moment)? 1
 What is it'soriginal cause ? 1
 That would be the first moment of consciousness in the womb. 1
That would have been a mental consciousnessin all three realms, desire, form and formless realms it comes inthe general category of mental factors known as objectascertaining mental factors and it is defined as a mental factorof fine discrimination, which can discriminate between whether athing is virtuous or non virtuous. 1
 Now this definition is abiased one, it is biased from the point of view of howintelligence should be employed along the spiritual path. 1
 Usingthe faculty of mind to discriminate what sort of story you aregoing to tell somebody in order to convince them to buy yourproduct might be the same mental factor but it doesn't have thisdefinition. 1
 So this intelligence, mental factor in Sanskrit iscalled prajna, which is often translated as wisdom, but you canalso translate it as intelligence based upon the definition ofbeing fine discrimination which is something which sounds likeintelligence. 1
 But if we call it wisdom we certainly put it in adifferent category than the cleverness of buying and sellingthings and it is a mental factor that you only find with themental consciousness. 1
 The five sense consciousnesses do not have this mental factor ofintelligence, also for example concentration that's also anotherobject ascertaining mental factor and this enables one to focussingle pointedly on an object without being distracted byexcitement or laxity, this too is only a mental consciousness,you can't develop your concentration merely by looking atsomething with the eyes, there has to be a mental thought forinstance going on that produces an image or that you use to focussingle pointedly with. 1
 This mental factor concentration is saidto function to increase wisdom, intelligence, because if you canfocus single pointedly on something for a long time then thatenables you to analyze very finely all of the qualities andcharacteristics of a thing, particularly determining whether thething exists in the way it appears. 1
 Concentration is something that depends upon another objectascertaining mental factor which is known as mindfulness. 1
Mindfulness is the factor of not forgetting and it functions inthe way of holding any object without letting it go. 1
 In thiscontext it's mainly referring to virtuous objects as this is apresentation of mind and mental factors that are eithersupportive or destructive of the path to liberation. 1
 So if youwant to have good concentration then you have this ability tobring to mind an object and hold it there. 1
 To do that you needeffort, which is found in the category of virtuous mental factors, this effort is the mental factor that delights in virtue and itfunctions to cause new qualities to develop and old qualities toreach perfection. 1
 It's essential in the bringing to conclusionany virtuous work. 1
 It is a specific type of endeavor, not alltypes of endeavor are this specific mental factor effort. 1
 Thisone is delighting in virtue, delighting in making money is notthe same thing, due to delight in making money a person cangenerate a lot of energy and also use up all their time. 1
 From thepoint of view of the definition of effort that was given here,that type of endeavor is called laziness, the type of endeavor ofrejoicing or delighting in making money is called laziness. 1
 Nowfrom the point of view of the person who delights in makingmoney, the person who's spending all their life meditating andstudying is lazy. 1
 The person who is devoting their life themeditation and studying can regard this other person as lazy,both are exerting effort but they have different results. 1
 Theindustrialist has the result of great wealth, the spiritualpractitioner has the result of liberation and Enlightenment. 1
 Soafter the industrialist gets all of their money are they happy ? 1
No they're not, and they will say so. 1
 So therefore they've wastedtheir time. 1
 The person who gets liberation and Enlightenment ishappy. 1
 So they didn't waste their time. 1
 So if we judge laziness or not being lazy on the basis ofgetting the results you want then this person who delights invirtue is the one who is not lazy and so from this point of viewengaging in other activities is a laziness and that lazinessundermines their effort. 1
 There's different kinds of laziness. 1
Laziness is a mental factor that you find among the twentysecondary afflictions. 1
 It's defined as the mind that does notdelight in virtue and it has different types. 1
 Such as delightingin the non virtues, delighting in doing nothing. 1
 Delighting indoing nothing is something that you discover when you're relaxingin your favorite chair in front of the television and somebodyasks you to do something, then you discover how much you enjoysitting in that chair doing nothing. 1
 There's other forms oflaziness, one of which is self discouragement, such as thinkingthat you can't possibly enter into the spiritual path, thinkinglike I just couldn't do it. 1
 "That's okay for those high beingsbut not for me. 1
" Okay so that thought is a form of laziness. 1
 TheBuddha said that "even if a mosquito made the effort it couldbecome a Buddha, you human beings have more capacity than amosquito all that's lacking is effort". 1
 Remember effort isdelighting in virtue. 1
 So this is the key. 1
 Sometimes theexpression of putting effort into something appears to the mindlike drudgery, like work, sweating, breaking one's nails. 1
 There'sexpressions like I don't know if you have in French. 1
 We have anexpression for a person "working like a mule. 1
" "working like a mule" If you ever watch a mule work it's realdrudgery. 1
 But here idea of effort is delighting in virtue. 1
 Enjoying it,this comes from aspiration which is an object ascertaining mentalfactor, which is a mental factor that having ascertained avirtuous object then seeks it. 1
 This mental factor arises from thevirtuous mental factor of faith. 1
 The virtuous mental factor offaith is a mind that causes peace with respect to a valid object,it's a mental factor that has a valid object and causes all thedisturbing thoughts to be removed from the mind when you focus onthat object. 1
 There's different types. 1
 One is the faith of conviction which arises by depending uponreasons, such that one's mind has penetrated to whatever thatobject is, so that is you know what that object is. 1
 Then there isa purifying faith that with respect to the qualities that onesees the object having causes the mind to have a peace ortranquillity that arises in the heart, a kind of joy. 1
 Like forinstance sometimes when you read biographies of great saints andthere you become aware of the qualities that such a personexhibited and that causes a kind of joyful energy in your heartthen from this can come the aspiration to achieve such qualitiesoneself. 1
 The mental factor of effort sustains that aspiration. 1
 There's another object ascertaining mental factor called beliefand that mental factor takes as it's object an object that hasbeen ascertained and holds that object in the face of alldiscouragement. 1
 So if somebody were to tell you no it's not true, but if you have this mental factor of belief then it wouldn'tmatter what they said you'd still hold that as true. 1
 So bydepending then on faith the aspiration arises so faith will ariseby coming to know for instance the different qualities of anobject or the different reasons that validate the existence ofthe object and that's obtained by for instance listening andstudying. 1
 Some conviction comes from thinking about what you'vebeen studying and listening to. 1
 Aspiration then arises. 1
 Theneffort comes, with that effort seeing the various qualities, thevarious functions that say concentration can give you and youaspire to achieve that. 1
 Then you generate the effort to do so. 1
Through this effort one cultivates mindfulness and throughmindfulness you'll be able to hold the object throughout thewhole meditation period. 1
 Then through another mental factorcalled introspection which is a type of intelligence you analyzewhether or not any subtle factors are affecting theconcentration, any subtle negative mental factors are affectingthe concentration such as the secondary afflictions of excitementand laxity. 1
 We are then through the exercise of the virtuousmental factor of conscientiousness which is a combination of fourother virtuous mental factors, those being the mental factors ofdetachment, non anger, non ignorance and effort. 1
 Then one avoidsany kind of action that is not conducive to the spiritualdevelopment and thus applies whatever antidotes are necessary toeliminate these adverse factors of excitement and laxity, untilone arrives at a place where these negative mental factors don'toccur at all. 1
 Then you have to break the habit of utilizing thismental factor of introspection, because although it was helpfulat the time, it still divides your attention between the objectof concentration and the state of mind you have. 1
 For this youemploy the virtuous mental factor known as equanimity, which is astate of mind that remains in an equal state free from excitementand laxity, which sounds like a type of contentment, which thencounters this impulse to resort to introspection. 1
 Then throughthis, one arrives at single pointedness, which is achievedthrough the power of familiarity, which is brought about throughthe mental factor of mindfulness, of being able to hold theobject without losing it. 1
 This single pointedness then gives riseto the virtuous mental factor known as pliancy, which providesone with the ability to use the mind in whatever way you want. 1
Pliancy is said to be the actual antidote to laziness. 1
 Althoughlaziness and effort counteract each other it is pliancy thateliminates any danger of laziness because then you can use yourmind to do any virtuous activity without any resistance, like forinstance if there was an opportunity to take precepts in theearly morning, a person who generated pliancy, as soon as theyhave the thought to take precepts then the mind would just gothere. 1
 Without pliancy then when the thought to take preceptsarises it might be followed by the thought to not take precepts. 1
This mental pliancy can produce a physical pliancy in which thebody also gives no resistance to virtuous activities, inparticular this meditative activity. 1
 The body feels extremelylight, like a cotton ball. 1
 There's no pain in the knees or theback or any thing like that. 1
 Then due to the physical pliancythen that gives rise to a physical joy, then that physical joygives rise to a mental joy. 1
 So those two joys indicate that onehas arrived at the type of concentration that is known as calmabiding, which is in the category of an actual dhyana which is amind of the form realm. 1
 Then by means of this state of mind onecan cultivate intelligence with respect to the object reality,that is then using the mental factor of fine discrimination, andwhen that fine discrimination enhances one's concentrationinstead of dividing it one achieves penetrative insight or higherseeing. 1
 This is also known as the yoga or union of calm abidingand penetrative insight. 1
 Quite a high achievement. 1
 With such anachievement one enters into what's known as the path ofpreparation, and due to the force of familiarity, thatpenetrative insight perceiving reality (which at this stage isstill just a conceptual mind) will become a direct experience ofreality, known as the path of seeing. 1
 When you achieve the pathof seeing you longer create any more karma and you don't takerebirth through the force of karma. 1
 You're not done yet though. 1
 There's still the path of meditation to go before you reach thepath of no more learning. 1
 The path of no more learning is thestate of liberation. 1
 It gets it's name because you no longer haveto learn anything more to achieve liberation. 1
 So there was a little presentation of how these different mentalfactors are operating. 1
 There wasn't enough time to go into all ofthem, but you get some idea. 1
 The last aggregate, the fifth one isthese six main minds which I mentioned before. 1
 Somebody asked atlunch whether or not there are any more than six. 1
 According tosay, the Prasangika school of Buddhist philosophy there are onlysix, but within mental consciousness you can divide between grossforms and subtle forms. 1
 In the Cittamatrin school that followsscripture, you find a presentation of eight consciousnesses. 1
There is another school whose presentation asserts there is onlyone consciousness, and it just looks out through the differentdoors of the senses like one person in a house with many windows. 1
 In the presentation of eight consciousnesses, there are the sixthat were first mentioned, then a seventh one, known as theafflicted consciousness and the eighth one known as thefoundation consciousness. 1
 So there are these different schools ofthought. 1
 The Cittamatrin following reasoning just asserts sixconsciousnesses, so even the same school can't agree. 1
 TheCittamatrin school following scripture would refer to suchscriptures of the Buddha as the Lankavatara sutra which mentionsthe eight consciousnesses. 1
 But the great logician Dharmakirti whohad a special psychic power by means of which he could never bedefeated in debate, (much to the annoyance of many non Buddhists)could not accept that there were eight consciousnesses. 1
 He foundthat the afflicted mind was part of mental consciousness, andthat the various functions for which the foundation consciousnesswas asserted to be responsible could also be explained by themental consciousness. 1
 You might be attending teachings on tantra and you might hearsuch expressions as "clear light consciousness". 1
 The Prasangika'swould say that this would be an example of a subtle mentalconsciousness and also all the conceptual or thoughtconsciousnesses are mental consciousnesses. 1
 Dreams would be amental consciousness, although we can sometimes talk abouthearing and seeing in dreams, such hearing and seeing should beproperties of auditory and visual consciousnesses shouldn't they? 1
The Prasangika's would say dream visual consciousness and dreamauditory consciousness, they just use conventional expressions. 1
According to them there doesn't have to be any more validity fora thing than just how it's used conventionally, because they saythat all things are existing merely by name and thought. 1
 Butthat's all a subject of next month's seminar, so you have to staytuned to that next episode. 1
 "Aggregates 2. 1
" The sequel to"Aggregates 1" Any questions? 1
 So let's just sit for a couple of minutes and try to digest thethings that were said. 1
 Please dedicate the effort that we've made on this weekend thatall those beings who have yet to generate the aspiration forEnlightenment may quickly do so, that those who have alreadygenerated such an aspiration will develop it further and oneselfwill quickly become a fully Enlightened being so one can leadeveryone else without exception to that very same state. 1
