 Illusion's Game The Life and Teaching of Naropa by Chogyam Trungpa         We are going to discuss the life and teachings of Naropa fullyand completely, but not fully and completely in the way you wouldlike. 1
 We are going to discuss the outlines of Naropa's life andhis relationship with his guru Tilopa, and the twelve acts ofrepentance he had to go through. 1
 We will also discuss hisMahamudra experience. 1
 Mahamudra means "great symbol"; it isconnected with seeing the phenomena of the world as they are. 1
 Wewill close our discussion with the six teachings of Naropa. 1
   I find it necessary to express my negativities aboutpresenting such potent - two hundred percent potent - teachingsto the people of the continent of North America, or to the Westaltogether. 1
 Nobody here seems to be ready for this material atall. 1
 People are relating with the starting point of practice, andas far as we know, nobody in America has a complete understandingof even the hinayana level of Buddhism. 1
 People have hardly anyunderstanding at all. 1
 They have a completely schizophrenicattitude: they conceive of a divine, enlightened personality thatis opposed to their confused version of themselves. 1
  As a result,people regard themselves as abandoned people, completely badpeople. 1
 Or else they might have some hope, but that again isbased on some kind of spiritual pride that does not leave anyleeway for confusion at all. 1
 So we're hopeless. 1
 I'm afraid we'rehopeless. 1
   Isn't that a terrible, grim picture? 1
 Extremely grim. 1
 We arehopeless, absolutely confused. 1
 We are so confused we do not evenknow why we are here listening to this. 1
 We wonder why. 1
 We areextremely confused, bewildered. 1
 What can we do about that? 1
 Letalone talking about Naropa? 1
   Naropa achieved something. 1
 He found his way in the end. 1
 Oncehe became a disciple of Tilopa, he was okay. 1
 But before he becamea disciple of Tilopa, he was confused, as much as we are. 1
   Spiritual practice is stepping out of the duality of me-nessand my-ness as opposed to otherness, of who is me and who is notme. 1
 But in addition to this we have the further confusion ofgurus laying their trips on us. 1
 Or, as they are called inAmerica, guh-ROOS. 1
 That particular species of human beings wecall guh-ROOS are mysterious. 1
 They save you. 1
 They tell you theysave you entirely, but on the other hand they tell you they stillhave to work on themselves. 1
 We are confused. 1
 They are broke. 1
 It'sa hopeless situation. 1
   If we want to write essays about that for our Ph. 1
D. 1
, we won'tbe able to, because we are so confused. 1
 Even if we want to becomeprofessional gurus, we won't be able to make head or tail of it. 1
Of course a lot of people decide to "make a journey to the East,"to live with the natives: study with them, eat with them, andshit with them, whether they use toilet tissue or not. 1
 They areserious, obviously, and faithful in playing Burmese games,Japanese games, and so on. 1
 They get right into it - sit with theOrientals, eat with them, shit with them. 1
 We are getting back alot of anthropological messages about these "primitive"societies. 1
 It seems that though they are primitive, theirspiritual understanding is much higher than ours. 1
 In any case,these are the trips we have going on. 1
   I would like to call your attention to the following passagefrom the Life of Naropa:Once when *'Jig-med grags-pa (Abhayakirti)* [Naropa], with hisback to the sun, was studying the books on grammar, epistemology,spiritual precepts, and logic, a terrifying shadow fell on them. 1
Looking round he saw behind him an old woman with thirty sevenugly features: her eyes were red and deep-hollowed; her hair wasfox-coloured and dishevelled; her forehead large and protruding;her face had many wrinkles and was shrivelled up; her ears werelong and lumpy; her nose was twisted and inflamed; she had ayellow beard streaked with white; her mouth was distorted andgaping; her teeth were turned in and decayed; her tongue madechewing movements and moistened her lips; she made sucking noisesand licked her lips; she whistled when she yawned; she wasweeping and tears ran down her cheeks; she was shivering andpanting for breath; her complexion was darkish blue; her skin wasrough and thick; her body bent and askew; her neck curved; shewas hump-backed; and, being lame, she supported herself on astick. 1
 She said to Naropa: "What are you looking into? 1
"   "I study the books on grammar, epistemology, spiritualprecepts, and logic," he replied. 1
   "Do you understand them? 1
"   "Yes. 1
"   "Do you understand the words or the sense? 1
"   "The words. 1
"The old woman was delighted, rocked with laughter, and began todance, waving her stick in the air. 1
 Thinking that she might feelstill happier, Naropa added: "I also understand the sense. 1
" Butthen the woman began to weep and tremble and she threw her stickdown. 1
   "How is it that you were happy when I said that I understoodthe words, but became miserable when I added that I alsounderstood the sense? 1
"   "I felt happy because you, a great scholar, did not lie andfrankly admitted that you only understood the words. 1
 But I feltsad when you told a lie by stating that you understood the sense,which you do not. 1
"   "Who, then, understands the sense? 1
"   "My brother. 1
"   "Introduce me to him, wherever he may be. 1
"   "Go yourself, pay your respects to him, and beg him that youmay come to grasp the sense. 1
"   With these words, the old woman disappeared like a rainbow inthe sky. 1
 [The Life and Teaching of Naropa, trans. 1
 Herbert V. 1
Guenther (Boston & London:Shambala Publications, 1986), pp. 1
 24-25]Naropa was studying epistemology, logic, philosophy, and grammar. 1
That's where we are at. 1
 Of course everybody is also extremelyinvolved with art now. 1
 Everybody is trying to work out theirartistic self-expression. 1
 They might hear the teachings of Naropain connection with art; they might see it in terms of "the art ofthe Tibetan teachings. 1
" Then there is also logic, the question ofhow the teachings relate with each other, how not and how so. 1
 Weare involved with logic as well. 1
 It could be said that everybodyhere is in the first stage of Naropa's experience, involved inphilosophy and art, as well as epistemology. 1
 We are on the samelevel Naropa was experiencing before enlightenment. 1
 We want ananswer; we want definitions. 1
 We want a fixed situation ratherthan something fluid. 1
 We feel that concepts are very badlyneeded. 1
   In this seminar you are not going to be able to relate withconcepts. 1
 You're not going to get something out of studyinglogic, epistemology, grammar, and philosophy - which were afailure for Naropa as well. 1
 That is why he had to go throughtwelve stages of punishment, because of his concepts. 1
 We aregoing to go through the same journey that Naropa went through; weare going to take a tour of Naropa's agony. 1
 In some ways, it isgoing to be like Disneyland. 1
 You go through some tunnel, and youcome out; you're delivered to somewhere else. 1
 You see excitingthings and you come out on the other end. 1
 But in this case, it isrelated with psychological problems. 1
 It is going to be moredeathening, more hellish or more heavenish. 1
 We start at Naropa'sstarting point of searching for goodness and trying to achievedivinity. 1
II: Genuine Madness and Pop Art   And he proceeded onwards in an Eastern direction. 1
   These were the visions he had:   When he had come to a narrow footpath that wound between rocksand a river, he found a leper woman without hands and feetblocking his path. 1
   "Do not block the way, step aside. 1
"   "I cannot move. 1
 Go around if you are not in a hurry, but ifyou are, jump over me. 1
"   Although he was full of compassion, he closed his nose indisgust and leaped over her. 1
 The leper woman rose in the air in arainbow and said:     Listen Abhayakirti:     The Ultimate in which all become the same     Is free of habit-forming thought and             limitations. 1
     How, if still fettered by them,     Can you hope to find the Guru? 1
   At this the woman, the rocks, and the path all vanished andNaropa fell into a swoon on a sandy plateau. 1
 When he recoveredconsciousness he thought: "I did not recognize this to be theGuru, now I shall ask anyone I meet for instruction. 1
" Then he gotup and went on his way praying. 1
   On a narrow road he met a stinking bitch crawling with vermin. 1
He closed his nose and jumped over the animal, which thenappeared in the sky in a rainbow halo and said:     All living beings by nature are one's parents. 1
     How will you find the Guru, if     Without developing compassion     On the Mahayana path     You seek in the wrong direction? 1
     How will you find the guru to accept you     When you look down on others? 1
   After these words the bitch and the rocks disappeared andNaropa again swooned on a sandy plateau. 1
   When he came to, he resumed his prayers and his journey, andmet a man carrying a load. 1
   "Have you seen the venerable Tilopa? 1
"   "I have not seen him. 1
 However, you will find behind thismountain a man playing tricks on his parents. 1
 Ask him. 1
"   When he had crossed the mountain, he found the man, who said:   "I have seen him, but before I tell you, help me to turn myparents' head. 1
"   But Abhayakirti thought: "Even if I should not find thevenerable Tilopa, I cannot associate with a scoundrel, because Iam a prince, a Bhikshu, and a scholar. 1
 If I seek the Guru I willdo so in a respectable way according to the dharma. 1
"   Everything happened as before, the man receded into the centreof a rainbow halo and said:     How will you find the Guru, if     In this doctrine of Great Compassion     You do not crack the skull of egotism     With the mallet of non-Pure-Egoness and         nothingness? 1
   The man disappeared like a rainbow and Naropa fell senselessto the ground. 1
 When he woke up there was nothing and he walked onpraying as he went. 1
   Beyond another mountain he found a man who was tearing theintestines out of a human corpse and cutting them up. 1
 Askedwhether he had seen Tilopa, he answered:   "Yes, but before I show him to you, help me to cut up theintestines of this decayed corpse. 1
"   Since Naropa did not do so, the man moved away into the centreof a rainbow -coloured light and said:     How will you find the Guru, if     You cut not Samsara's ties     With the unoriginatedness of the Ultimate     In its realm on non-reference? 1
   And the man disappeared like a rainbow. 1
   When Naropa had recovered from his swoon and gone on his waypraying, he found on the bank of a river a rascal who had openedthe stomach of a live man and was washing it with warm water. 1
When he asked him whether he had seen the venerable Tilopa, hereplied:   "Yes, but before I show him, help me. 1
"   Again Naropa refused, and the man appearing in a centre oflight in the sky said:     How will you find the Guru, if     With the water of profound instruction     You cleanse not Samsara, which by nature [is]          free     Yet represents the dirt of habit-forming          thoughts? 1
   And the man disappeared in the sky. 1
   After having woken from his swoon Naropa prayed and journeyedon until he came to the city of a great king, whom he askedwhether he had seen Tilopa. 1
 The king replied:   "I have seen him, but marry my daughter before I show him toyou. 1
"   Having taken her, he seemed to spend a long time. 1
 Then theking, not wishing to let him go, took back the girl and the dowryand left the room. 1
 Not recognizing this as a magic spell, butthinking that he would have to employ force with the aid the*bDe-mchog rtsa-rgyud, Abhhidhana-uttaratantra*, he heard a voicesay:     Are you not deceived by a magic show? 1
     How then will you find the Guru     If through desire and dislike you fall     Into the three forms of evil life? 1
   And the whole kingdom disappeared. 1
   When Naropa came to, he travelled in prayer until he met adark man with a pack of hounds, a bow and arrows. 1
   "Have you seen Tilopa? 1
"   "Yes. 1
"   "Show him to me. 1
"   "Take this bow and arrow and kill that deer. 1
"   When Naropa refused, the man said:     A hunter, I have drawn the arrow     Of the phantom body which from desires is          free     In the bow, of radiant light the essence:     I shall kill the fleeting deer of this and that,     On the mountain of the body believing in          an I. 1
     Tomorrow I go fishing in the lake. 1
   So saying, he disappeared. 1
   When Naropa had recovered he continued prayerfully in searchof the Guru and came to the shore of a lake full of fish. 1
 Nearbytwo old people were ploughing a field, killing and eating theinsects they found in the furrows. 1
   "Have you seen Tilopa? 1
"   "He stayed with us, but before I show him to you - hallo,wife, come and get this Bhikshu something to eat. 1
"   The old woman took some fish and frogs from her net and cookedthem alive. 1
 When she invited Naropa to eat, he said: "Since I ama Bhikshu I no longer have an evening meal, and besides that I donot eat meat. 1
" Thinking, "I must have violated the doctrine ofthe Buddha to be asked to dine by an old woman who cooks fish andfrogs alive," he sat there miserably. 1
 Then the old man came upwith an ox on his shoulders and asked his wife: "Have youprepared some food for the Bhikshu? 1
" She replied: "He seems to bestupid; I cooked some food, but he said that he did not want toeat. 1
"   Then the old man threw the pan into the fire while fish andfrogs flew up into the sky. 1
 He said:     Fettered by habit-forming thoughts, 'tis hard          to find the Guru. 1
     How will you find the Guru if you eat not     This fish of habit-forming thoughts, but hanker     After pleasures (which enhance the sense of ego)? 1
     Tomorrow I will kill my parents. 1
   He then disappeared. 1
   After his recovery Naropa came upon a man who had impaled hisfather on a stake, put his mother into a dungeon, and was aboutto kill them. 1
 They cried loudly: "Oh son, do not be so cruel. 1
"Although Naropa was revolted at the sight, he asked the manwhether he had seen Tilopa, and was answered: "Help me to killthe parents who have brought me misfortune and I will then showyou Tilopa. 1
"   But since Naropa felt compassion for the man's parents, he didnot make friends with this murderer. 1
 Then with the words:     You will find it hard to find the Guru     If you do not kill the three poisons that derive     From your parents, the dichotomy of this and         that. 1
     Tomorrow I will go and beg. 1
the man disappeared. 1
   When Naropa had recovered from his swoon and gone on inprayer, he came to a hermitage. 1
 One of the inmates recognized himas Abhayakirti and asked: "Why have you come? 1
 Is it to meet us? 1
"   "I am merely a Ku-su-li-pa, there is no need for a reception. 1
"   The hermit, however, did not heed his words and received himwith due honours. 1
 Asked for the reason for his coming, Naropasaid: "I seek Tilopa. 1
 Have you seen him? 1
"   "You will find that your search has come to an end. 1
 Inside isa beggar who claims to be Tilopa. 1
"   Naropa found him within sitting by the fire and frying livefish. 1
 When the hermits saw this, they began angrily to beat thebeggar, who asked: "Don't you like what I do? 1
"   "How can we when evil is done in a hermitage? 1
"   The beggar snapped his fingers, said "Lohivagaja," and thefish returned to the lake. 1
 Naropa, realizing that this man mustbe Tilopa, folded his hands and begged for instruction. 1
 The Gurupassed him a handful of lice, saying:     If you would kill the misery of habit-forming          thoughts     And ingrained tendencies on the endless path     To the ultimate nature of all beings,     First you must kill (these lice). 1
   But when Naropa was unable to do so, the man disappeared withthe words:     You will find it hard to find the Guru     If you kill not the louse of habit-forming          thoughts,     Self-originated and self-destructive. 1
     Tomorrow I will visit a freak show. 1
   Dejectedly Naropa got up and continued his search. 1
 Coming to awide plain, he found many one-eyed people. 1
 a blind man withsight, an earless one who could hear, a man without a tonguespeaking, a lame man running about, and a corpse gently fanningitself. 1
 When Naropa asked them if they had seen Tilopa, theydeclared:   "We haven't seen him or anyone else. 1
 If you really want tofind him, do as follows:     "Out of confidence, devotion, and certainty,         become     A worthy vessel, a disciple with the courage         of conviction. 1
     Cling to the spirituality of a Teacher in the         spiritual fold,     Wield the razor of intuitive understanding as         the viewpoint,     Ride the horse of bliss and radiance as the         method of attention,     Free yourself from the bonds of this and that         as the way of conduct. 1
     Then shines the sun of self-lustre which         understands     One-eyedness as the quality of many,     Blindness as seeing without seeing a thing,     Deafness as hearing without hearing a thing,     Muteness as speaking without saying         something,     Lameness as moving without being hurried,     Death's immobility as the breeze of the         Unoriginated (like air moved by a fan). 1
In this way the symbols of Mahamudra were pointed out, whereaftereverything disappeared. 1
"   In the teachings proclaimed by the Kagyu lineage, we find alot of processes that have to be gone through and understandingsthat have to be developed. 1
 This is by no means easy. 1
 It isextremely difficult to understand that there is some basicconfusion we have created, and that within that confusion thereis also some kind of madness. 1
 Strangely enough, the madness isnot confused. 1
 There is sanity in the confusion and the madness. 1
Confusion in dealing with the situation of life a fixed thingseems to be a sane approach. 1
 So what seems to be insane isenlightenment. 1
   Naropa's approach to his successive discoveries in his visions- or whatever they are, phantoms that he sees - is connected withhis seeming sanity. 1
 Because Naropa was born a prince and waseducated and became a professor at Nalanda University, he regardshimself as a sensible person, an educated, sensible person,someone highly respected. 1
 But this sensible quality, this sanityof his, turns out to be a very clumsy way of relating with theteachings of Tilopa - the teachings of the Kagyu lineage. 1
 Becausehe was not enough of a freak, because he was not insane enough,he couldn't relate with them at all. 1
   Insanity in this case is giving up logical arguments, givingup concept. 1
 Things as they are conceptualized are not things asthey are. 1
 We have to try to see within the conceptualizedsituation, according to which fire is hot and the sky is blue. 1
Maybe the sky is green; maybe fire is cold. 1
 There's thatpossibility, always. 1
   When we hear someone say such a thing we become extremelyperplexed and annoyed. 1
 We think: "Of course fire is hot; fire isnot cold. 1
 Of course the sky is blue, not green. 1
 That's nonsense! 1
I'm not going to have anything to do with that kind of nonsense. 1
I'm going to stick to my sensible outlook. 1
 The sky is blue andfire is hot; that gives me a sense of security, satisfaction, andsanity. 1
 If fire is hot, I'm quite happy with it. 1
 If the sky isblue, I'm also happy with that. 1
 I don't want any interferencewith my regular line of thought. 1
"   On the other hand, the idea of insanity we are looking intohere does not mean that you should drop your ordinary sanity andbe swinging and hip, to use current conventional terms. 1
 I am notsaying you should change your entire perspective around, thatinstead of being clean, you should be dirty because that's a morehip way to behave, or that you should adopt any of the rest ofthat kind of approach. 1
 That is not quite the point. 1
 People mightthink that Naropa's hang-up was that he was not hip enough toexperience Tilopa's doctrine or teaching. 1
 That is not quite so. 1
There is a problem in communicating this situation to late-twentieth-century-Americans. 1
 We have an enormous problem there. 1
   One of the biggest problems we face is the popularity ofTibetan Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhist works of art. 1
 Everything isregarded as fabulous, a fantastic display. 1
 "It is so fantastic! 1
It matches what I saw in my acid trip! 1
 It's fabulous! 1
" Looking atit with this attitude, the style of Naropa and his hang-ups andthe style of Tilopa and his teachings might be seen as pop art,with people just thinking, "It's a far-out thing. 1
" Tibetanwrathful deities in paintings and thangkas demonstrate a crazy-wisdom quality, which is pop art from the point of view of thosewho regard connecting with the teachings as a hip thing to do. 1
   There are problems with that. 1
 Take the example of going intoretreat in a cabin in the woods under severe conditions. 1
 Thatshould not be regarded as an alternative form of luxury. 1
 Theretreat cabin you meditate in has nothing to do with yourreaction against your central-heated home or your penthouse. 1
 Ithas nothing to do with that at all. 1
 It just provides another lifesituation, and that's all. 1
 Meditating in retreat in a cabin inthe remote countryside is not pop art. 1
 The same is true forvisualizing all kinds of deities and mandalas as some Americanstudents have been instructed to do. 1
 The first impact on themseems to be: "At last I am able to relate with those beautiful,colorful, groovy things that are in the Tibetan thangkas. 1
 At lastI have managed to get to relate with that. 1
 At last the dreamcomes true, and I am able to live real pop art. 1
 I'm not onlythinking of them or painting them; by visualizing, I'm becomingpart of them. 1
 It's an exciting, outlandish thing to do. 1
" It's akind of pop art. 1
   To come back to Naropa, this seems to be precisely Naropa'shang-up. 1
 He had so much fascination about Tilopa and receivingthe tantric teachings from him that he also looked at it as thenext groovy thing to do. 1
 And he walked and walked and walked andwent on and on. 1
 But at each point he got hit because he regardedthe whole thing as pop art according to the conception of thatparticular age. 1
  And it is possible that we ourselves mightexperience the same kind of situation as well, if we impulsivelyregard the whole thing as pop art - as colorful, inspiring, and,at the same time, artistic. 1
 As long as we regard it as somethingwe might tune into at any time, whenever we like, thinking thatas soon as we do, it will relieve us from all our pressures andtensions - as long as we regard it as another escape, anothersidetrack - being hit like Naropa could happen to us too. 1
   All the successive situations that Naropa went through inexperiencing Tilopa's different qualities - the leper woman, thedecaying dog, the criminal, and so on - involve a psychologicalexpectation that is an extremely confused one. 1
 And we try to makepictures out of that psychological confusion. 1
 And the only kindof picture we can come up with is a beautiful, colorful, artistickind of picture with a dreamy quality connected with possiblyachieving a goal, an aim and object. 1
 In other words, our pictureis connected with the idea of reaching heaven. 1
 That seems to bethe problem - because such an idea has nothing to do with truthor reality as the Kagyu lineage speaks of it, nothing to do withthe mahamudra experience. 1
 Such ideas are not real truth. 1
 Bliss isnot the real truth. 1
 Meditative absorption is not the real truth. 1
It seems the real truth is naked and direct, uncolored, unshaded,and not manufactured - the simple existence of a solitary rock -which seems to be extremely boring to experience. 1
 We might think,"If I'm not going to get any excitement or understanding out ofexperiencing such a truth, what the hell am I getting into thistrip for? 1
"   And that seems to be our problem. 1
 When we try to get intosomething, we expect a lot - entertainment, precision, an answer,reassurance, clarity. 1
 We expect all kinds of things. 1
 By expectingclarity, we are confusing the whole issue; we are producingconfusion. 1
 By expecting reassurance, by expecting to be reassuredthat the trip we are getting into is right, we are creating moreparanoia. 1
 Paranoia and reassurance speak the same language;they're on the same level; they're always interdependent. 1
 Bylooking for precise understanding, we are arousing fear ofconfusion, we are making more confusion constantly. 1
 When we thinkof bliss, we are making a reference point out of this blissfulstate, therefore we are arousing fear of pain; we are creatingfurther pain under the pretense of trying to create bliss. 1
 Theseare the things that Naropa experienced in his search for Tilopa. 1
And that is also what we are experiencing. 1
 That is what generallyhappens. 1
 We try to grasp every situation of confusion as fast aspossible; we grasp it, dwell on it, make it into a mother, suckas much milk as possible out of it, dwell further on it, bounceon it. 1
   In a sense it is beautiful that we can relate to Naropa'sconfusion as our confusion. 1
 It is extremely beautiful that we canrelate with him. 1
 We can also relate with his understanding. 1
 Weourselves could become like Naropa, the father of the Kagyulineage. 1
 This whole room we are in together is filled withpotential Naropas, because the whole room is filled with thepotentiality of Naropa's confusion. 1
 It is quite beautiful. 1
   It seems that in relation to the whole thing we are talkingabout, Naropa's attainment of enlightenment is not thatimportant. 1
 It is Naropa's confusion that is important for us asordinary people. 1
 Connecting with that provides a basis forprogress, for a step toward understanding. 1
 So let us relate withhis story that way. 1
 All the hang-ups that Naropa experienced, allhis imaginations - his visual mind, his auditory mind as heexperienced them - are part of our makeup as well. 1
 And there arepossibilities of stepping out of that confusion. 1
STUDENT: I am confused by some of the things Naropa was asked todo. 1
 Seemingly there shouldn't be any contradiction between aguru's teaching and the Buddha's teaching. 1
 And yet in the visionsthere seem to be a lot of them. 1
 For example, asking him to killlice seems to be a direct contradiction. 1
 On the one hand, his"sane," sensible mind is saying, "Don't do this"; on the other,it is saying, "Do this. 1
" It seems either way the poor guy turns,he gets cut down. 1
 What would have happened if he had killed thelice? 1
 He still would have been in violation, so to speak. 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Probably at that moment there was no such thingas lice to be killed. 1
 Physically there may have been no lice atall. 1
S: Still, you're killing, whether it's only a projection or not. 1
If you kill somebody in a dream, isn't that the same as actuallycarrying out the action? 1
TR: It's quite different. 1
 You're dealing with your ownprojections in a dream. 1
 If you dreamed that you became amillionaire, you wouldn't actually become a millionaire. 1
S: It still sounds suicidal. 1
 Even if the lice aren't there,something exists. 1
TR: Yes, something exists, which is your projections, your dogma,your resistance, which has to be killed. 1
 Of course there issomething there; not only something, but *the* thing is there. 1
S: If it's killed, you're still left a killer, aren't you? 1
TR: Attaining enlightenment could be described as killing ego. 1
S: It sounds suicidal and hence not complete. 1
TR: It is complete. 1
 When you attain enlightenment, the killer ofego is so efficient and precise that ego cannot arise again atall, not even a memory of it. 1
 It does a very fine job. 1
 When wekill somebody in the literal sense, we cannot kill themcompletely. 1
 We can't kill their name, we can't kill theirrelatives - something is left. 1
 But in killing ego in connectionwith the attainment of enlightenment, we do a complete job - thename and the concept are killed as well. 1
S: Sometimes you talk about meditation in terms of making friendswith yourself. 1
 Is this what you call making friends withyourself? 1
TR: What self? 1
S: It just doesn't seem very friendly. 1
TR: It is the act of a friend, an act of compassion. 1
 Ego ismurdered out of compassion, out of love. 1
 Usually murder takesplace out of hate. 1
 It is because the murder of the ego is doneout of compassion that, quite surprisingly, it is complete. 1
 Themurder of ego is a complete murder, in contrast to the otherkind. 1
S: Putting it out of its misery. 1
TR: Not quite. 1
 Respecting the misery. 1
STUDENT: Rinpoche, it sounds as though you're saying we have togo beyond, transcend ego, before we even have the right to getinto tantra. 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Go beyond? 1
 I think we have to, yes. 1
 It seemsthat in the current situation in America, we are in the stage ofbeing haunted by the lady with the thirty-seven ugly marks asNaropa was. 1
 We haven't developed to the next stages of Naropa'ssearch for Tilopa at all yet. 1
 We have just stayed at thebeginning. 1
 At the moment we seem to be just discovering thedifference between the words and the sense. 1
 The discovery of theword seems to be the sense, but that is not quite the case. 1
Discovering the words was what Naropa was doing reading thatparticular book with his back to the sun. 1
 Reading a book onlogic. 1
 We seem to be at that level. 1
 So we have a long way to go. 1
STUDENT: Is each one of these situations that Naropa goes througha step in developing out of his confusion? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Each situation has a different symbolismrelated with that, yes. 1
STUDENT: Who is arranging all these visions? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Nobody. 1
 It just seems to happen that way. 1
STUDENT: Rinpoche, could you say more about the madness ofinsanity you were talking about? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: It is madness beyond the conceptualized pointof view of ego. 1
 For example, if you are in an outrageous state ofhatred and trying to relate with somebody as an object of thathatred, if that person doesn't communicate back to you in termsof hate, you might think he is a mad person. 1
 You think he is madbecause he doesn't fight you back. 1
 As far as you are concerned,that person his mad, because he has lost his perspective ofaggression and passion as it should be from the point of view . 1
. 1
. 1
S: From the point of view of samsara? 1
TR: Yes. 1
 From the point of view of samsara, Buddha is mad. 1
There's a story in the Indian scriptures that in a particularcountry, a soothsayer predicted to the king that there would beseven days of rain containing a substance that would make peoplemad. 1
 Whoever drank the water would go mad. 1
 So his whole kingdomwas going to go mad. 1
 Hearing this prediction, the king collectedgallons and gallons of water for his private use to keep himselffrom going mad. 1
 Then the rain fell and everyone else went mad. 1
Then they all began accusing the king of being mad. 1
 Finally hegave in and decided to drink the water of madness in order to fitin with the rest of the kingdom. 1
 He couldn't be bothered keepinghimself "insane. 1
"STUDENT: In the different visions that Naropa has, he doesn'twant to do the things he's asked to do, presumably because hethinks they're immoral. 1
 So are we to conclude from this thatmorality and the moral law are purely something that operates inthe ego realm, and that an enlightened person in the position ofTilopa follows no moral law? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Tilopa does follow the moral law in itsabsolute perfection. 1
S: What does that mean? 1
TR: The conventional moral law purely has to do with relatingwith you conscience rather than dealing with situations. 1
 Dealingwith situations, with what is right and what is wrong insituations, is Tilopa's fashion. 1
 If you relate with a situationin terms of your conscience or your perceptions, it means youdon't even have any idea of understanding the situation. 1
 Thisseems to be what happens in general in life. 1
 You have to try tounderstand situations as precisely as possible, but there aresituations that you regard as bad to understand. 1
 For example, ifyou had to investigate a murder case, you might want todissociate yourself from the case altogether, thinking, "I don'twant to be involved with murder at all. 1
" Then you have no way atall of understanding how and why one person murdered the other. 1
You could let yourself become involved with that murder case andtry to understand the rightness and wrongness of what was done asscientifically as possible. 1
 You could look into the situation interms of cause and effect and gain some understanding of it. 1
 Buton the other hand, if you think, "Becoming involved with murderwill just get me in contact with bad vibrations, so I'll havenothing to do with that," then you seal yourself off completely. 1
   That is exactly the same thing that seems to be happening inpresent-day society. 1
 Particularly the young generation doesn'twant to have anything to do with society - let alone understandit - because it's something ugly, something terrible. 1
 Thiscreates tremendous confusion and conflict. 1
 Whereas if people wereto get into society and try to understand what is wrong, theremight be some intelligence coming out of that. 1
 Complete rejectionwithout discrimination seems to be the problem. 1
STUDENT: So should we register to vote? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Why not? 1
 Add your energies to the country's. 1
STUDENT: Don't you think there have been some things we've alllearned from that rejection you were just talking about? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Yes and no - both. 1
 A lot of people haverejected Christianity and gone to Hinduism or Buddhism. 1
 They feelthat they no longer have any associations with Christianity atall. 1
 Then later - from the point of view of aliens - they beginto realize that Christianity speaks some kind of profound truth. 1
They only see that from the point of view of aliens, having goneaway. 1
 They begin to appreciate the culture they were brought upin. 1
 Finally they become the best Christians, people with muchmore understanding of Christianity than ordinary Christians. 1
   You can't reject your history. 1
 You can't say that your hair isblack if it is blond. 1
 You have to accept your history. 1
 Thosewanting to imitate Oriental culture might go so far as to become100 percent Hindu or 100 percent Japanese, even to the point ofundergoing plastic surgery. 1
 But somehow denying your existence -your body, your makeup, your psychological approach - does nothelp. 1
 In fact, it brings more problems. 1
 You have to be what youare. 1
 You have to relate to your country, its politics, itsculture. 1
 That is extremely important, since you cannot becomesomeone else. 1
 And it is such a blessing. 1
   If we could become someone else, or halfway someone else, thatwould provide us with a tremendous number of sidetracks andpossibilities for escape. 1
 We should be thankful that we have abody, a culture, a race, and a country that is honestly ours, andwe should relate with those. 1
 We can't reject all that. 1
 Thatrepresents our relationship to the earth as a whole, our nationalkarma, and all the rest of it. 1
  That seems to be the startingpoint for attaining enlightenment, becoming a buddha, an Americanbuddha. 1
STUDENT: Rinpoche, Naropa's experiences seem to be all symbols. 1
Can't we go too far in taking everything as a symbol? 1
 How do weprevent ourselves from going too far in that sense? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Naropa in a sense failed in this way because hedidn't have the chance of relating with Tilopa immediately. 1
 Forthat very reason, he got too much involved in symbolism. 1
 The samecould apply to us as well. 1
 It's not so much a matter of too muchsymbolism as of too much fascination with the context. 1
 Forexample, you could be completely fooled by a salesman if you'rein a shop. 1
 The salesman might say, "This is such beautifulmaterial. 1
 This is such a functional item. 1
 It's of good quality,yet cheap. 1
 It's so beautiful; you'll be getting your money'sworth. 1
" At that point, you can't deny that what the salesman istelling you is the truth. 1
 He's absolutely telling the truth. 1
 Thething he's trying to sell you does have those good qualities. 1
 Butif you ended up buying it on the basis of fascination, you mightbe disappointed afterward, because somehow afterward you're notrelating with it on the same level of fascination anymore. 1
 Youmight find at that point that your fascination is rejected by theexperience you had in your first glimpse before the salesmanbegan to fascinate you. 1
 The whole thing is based on fascination. 1
S: What I was asking about was if there was a point where one hasgone too far in taking experiences as symbolic, a point where thewhole thing's a projection. 1
TR: Yes that is related with fascination, not being able torelate with yourself. 1
 One has to relate to one's whole beingrather than just purely dealing with accuracy and beautifuldisplay. 1
STUDENT: In the Buddhist tradition, after the death of the ego,is there any self left? 1
 Does self exist? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: That's a very old question. 1
 You see, in orderto have the continuity of something, you have to have somebodyconstantly watching this continuity happening. 1
 If you have egocontinuing, you also have to have the observer observing that egois continuing. 1
 This is because the whole thing is based on amirage. 1
 If there's no watcher, there's no mirage. 1
 If there's awatcher to acknowledge that the mirage exists, there will be amirage. 1
 After enlightenment, there's no watcher anymore;therefore the watcher's object does not exist anymore. 1
S: Does the being exist after that? 1
TR: The being is self-consciousness, making sure you are there. 1
And you don't watch yourself being there anymore. 1
 It's not aquestion of whether being exists or does not exist. 1
 If you seebeing as not existing, then you have to watch that, make surethat being does not exist anymore, which is continuing the beinganyhow. 1
S: So in other words, there is a death or an identity after egodeath, and the death of ego is the death of confusion about it? 1
TR: Well, the watcher dissolves so we cannot say yes or noeither. 1
 It's beyond remark. 1
STUDENT: Regarding relating with our culture, Alan Watts saysthat one thing that has given our culture a great neurosis isseeing things in terms of the conflict between good and evilrather than just seeing them as they are. 1
 This makes me want toask you about the Buddhist view of what the devil is or the blackmagician. 1
 A lot of our cultural history that is still going onhas to do with black magic. 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Defining good and evil or the devil and blackmagic is very much related to our topic of sanity and insanity,and the whole subject of meditation is related with that as well. 1
The result of any situation that is connected with self-enrichment, or an attempt at self-perpetuation, either in an ego-centered way or a very innocent and kind way - the result ofanything aimed at enriching the ego - is destruction, completeconfusion, perpetual confusion. 1
 There is no killing of ego here. 1
From a black magician's point of view, you don't kill somebody'sego, you kill somebody's non-ego. 1
S: How can you do that? 1
TR: You just do it out of conviction, belief. 1
 In other words youcan't destroy it completely, but you put a smear of ink over it,and you don't look again; you just hope for the best - that youkilled it. 1
 The whole thing is connected with spiritualmaterialism, which I talk so much about. 1
 Spiritual materialismmeans enriching the ego. 1
 Anything related with spiritualmaterialism is a step toward the black magician, if I may say so. 1
It could be a step toward the black magician or the whitemagician actually, but in any case toward the magician, towardgaining power. 1
 If you want to help your friend, you just do it. 1
If you want to destroy your enemy, you just do it. 1
 In that way,you have the potential of the black magician, even if you areregarded as a kind person who is at the same time a powerfulperson. 1
   The whole question is how much the relationship with egobecomes a central theme in spiritual practice. 1
 When it does, youget good and bad, what is and what is not, which is calledduality in Buddhist terminology. 1
 The whole thing of who you areis purely related with the watcher. 1
 You can't measure anythingwithout a starting point. 1
 And you can't count unless you canstart from zero. 1
 So zero is you, ego. 1
 You start from there andyou build your number series, you build your measurement system,you build your relationships. 1
 Once you do that, you get anoverwhelming sense of good and kind or bad and destructive. 1
 Youbuild all kinds of things based on that basic reference point. 1
 Itseems that the whole thing is based on how much you are involvedwith ego. 1
 That seems to be the basis for defining goodness orwickedness. 1
STUDENT: What are the methods in your way for killing the ego? 1
What methods would you use in our society? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: It has nothing to do wit society at all. 1
 It ispurely a matter of dealing with one's psychological state ofbeing. 1
 Sociological styles don't make any difference in thisregard. 1
 Sociological approaches or styles are just a photograph. 1
The direct way of dealing with ourselves here is getting into thenitty gritty of our whole existence and dealing with excruciatingpain and excruciating pleasure as directly as possible. 1
 That waywe begin to realize that pain and pleasure exist in an expansive,joyful way. 1
 So we don't have to nurse anything. 1
STUDENT: Rinpoche, you spoke of compassion as being bad medicinefor ego. 1
 Yet Naropa violates our definition of compassion in anumber of ways. 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: There are two different types of compassion. 1
There is actual compassion, direct compassion, absolutecompassion. 1
 Then there is the other kind of compassion that Mr. 1
Gurdjieff calls idiot compassion, which is compassion withneurosis, a slimy way of trying to fulfill your desire secretly. 1
This is your aim, but you give the appearance of being generousand impersonal. 1
S: What is absolute compassion? 1
TR: Absolute compassion is seeing the situation as it is,directly and thoroughly. 1
 If you have to be tough, you just do it. 1
In other words, idiot compassion contains a sort of opium -constantly trying to be good and kind - and absolute compassionis more literal, more discriminating, and more definite. 1
 You arewilling to hurt somebody, even though you do not want to hurtthat person; but in order to wake that person up, you might haveto hurt him or her, you might have to inflict pain. 1
   That is precisely why, in the Buddhist tradition, we don'tstart with the teaching of compassion, the mahayana, but we startwith teaching of the lesser vehicle, the hinayana. 1
 In thehinayana you try to get yourself together. 1
 Then you startapplying your compassion after that, having gotten yourselftogether, having built the foundation. 1
 You can't just work on thelevel of absolute compassion right from the beginning. 1
 You haveto develop toward it. 1
STUDENT: I think you said earlier that one of the obstacles todeveloping in this way is the need for reassurance. 1
 How does oneget away from the need for reassurance? 1
TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Acknowledge needing reassurance, acknowledge itas an effigy that looks in only one direction and does not lookaround. 1
 An effigy with one face, possibly only one eye. 1
 Doesn'tsee around, doesn't see the whole situation. 1
 Do you see what Imean? 1
S: The effigy only looks one way. 1
 Is this the person who needsreassurance? 1
TR: Yes, because that reassurance has to be attached to that onesituation. 1
 Whenever you need reassurance, that means you have afixed idea of what ought to be. 1
 And because of that you fix yourvision on one situation, one particular thing. 1
 And thosesituations that are not being observed because of the point ofview of needing reassurance, that we are not looking at, are asource of paranoia. 1
 We wish we could cover the whole ground, butsince we can't to that physiologically, we have to try to stickto that one thing as much as we can. 1
 So the need for reassurancehas only one eye. 1
S: And the way to get beyond that one-eyed vision? 1
TR: Develop more eyes, rather than just a unidirectional radarsystem. 1
 You don't have to fix your eye on one thing. 1
 You can havepanoramic vision, vision all around at once. 1
STUDENT: Something like a fish-eye lens,TRUNGPA RINPOCHE: Something like that, but even that has a camerabehind it. 1
