 D. 0
 TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE) Thank you very much, everybody. 0
 Well, I want to begin by thanking the people of South Carolina. 0
 This is a special state. 0
 Thank you. 0
 These are special people and we got a little boost last week from a place we all remember -- New Hampshire. 0
 We can't forget it. 0
 Special, special. 0
 We love it. 0
 And they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right? 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Very good feeling. 0
 So I really want to thank you and my volunteers. 0
 All of these people -- volunteers and they travel and they -- and I say, "what are you doing? 0
" And now they're going to Texas and they're going all over. 0
 Some are going to Nevada. 0
 I'll be going to Nevada. 0
 We're making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta and then we're going right to Nevada. 0
And I think we're going to do terrific and the SEC's (ph) going to be very, very exciting. 0
 We expect to do very, very well. 0
 Very well . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: I want to just say thank you to my family. 0
 It's been not easy for them. 0
 They don't see me anymore. 0
 I'm making speeches all the time and I have a great. 0
 I really have a great family so I just want to thank all of you. 0
And Ivanka -- you know we have a hospital ready just in case. 0
 In South Carolina we're going to have a baby. 0
 There's nothing wrong with that, right? 0
 So . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Could be -- it could be any second. 0
 It could even be before I'm finished but it's -- but she insisted on being here. 0
 It was so important to Ivanka to insist on being here so thank you. 0
 Really good and Jared, Vanessa, Don. 0
We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: You know Henry, right? 0
 The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. 0
 I will take him over the governor anytime because we won. 0
 We won . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: He handle that very nicely. 0
 He's tough. 0
 He's very tough. 0
 Tiffany, Eric, Lara and Melania. 0
 Melania, say something. 0
 Go ahead, please . 0
. 0
. 0
CONTENT FROM BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTONThe hottest tech trends dominating business in 2016Several emerging technology trends are altering how organizations tackle some of their most profound challenges. 0
(APPLAUSE)M. 0
 TRUMP: Just want to say an amazing place -- South Carolina. 0
 Congratulation to my husband. 0
 He was working very hard and he loves you. 0
 We love you and we're going ahead to Nevada. 0
 And we will see what happen (sic). 0
 He would be the best president . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: And representing some very, very wonderful children, Ivanka. 0
 Just say a few words. 0
(APPLAUSE)I. 0
 TRUMP: Thank you, South Carolina. 0
 This is an amazing, amazing night. 0
 The momentum since the beginning of this campaign has been unbelievable and that's because my father's message resonants so deeply with so many people. 0
 So as our family we're incredibly proud. 0
 We're incredibly grateful to each of you so thank you for being here to support us. 0
 And I will say this, my father is an incredibly hard worker and he'll be working for each and every one of you. 0
 So together we'll make America great again. 0
 Thank you . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Thank you very much. 0
 Thank you very much. 0
 So I was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what I was watching. 0
 And some of the pundits and overall fair but not too much. 0
 But a number of the pundits said, "well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out if you add their scores together it's going to equal Trump. 0
"But these geniuses -- they're geniuses -- they don't understand that as people drop out I'm going to get a lot of those votes also. 0
 You don't just . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: You don't just add them together. 0
 So I think we're going to do very, very well. 0
 I think we're going to do very well. 0
 I want to also congratulate the other candidates. 0
 In particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job and they got -- they did quite well as I understand. 0
 No, come on. 0
 Just one minute. 0
 Come on. 0
 One second, right? 0
 Good. 0
OK. 0
 We go back to war tomorrow morning. 0
 Tomorrow morning we'll be back but I just want to congratulate the other candidates. 0
 There's nothing easy about running for president, I can tell you. 0
 It's tough, it's nasty, it's mean, it's vicious, it's beautiful. 0
(LAUGHTER)D. 0
 TRUMP: When you win it's beautiful and we're going to start -- we are going to start winning for our country. 0
 We're going to start winning. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Because our country doesn't win anymore. 0
 Doesn't win. 0
 We don't win with the military, we can't beat ISIS. 0
 We have great military but we can't beat ISIS. 0
 We don't win on trade. 0
 You look at what China's doing to us, what Japan does to us, what Mexico is just killing us at the border -- at the border and with trade. 0
 Mexico is killing us -- absolutely. 0
 We'll do the wall. 0
 Don't worry. 0
 We're going to do the wall. 0
(APPLAUSE) D. 0
 TRUMP: We're going to do the wall and by the way, who's going to pay for the wall? 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Mexico's going to pay for the wall and it's very easy. 0
 The other politicians come down, "you can't get Mexico to pay for the wall. 0
" I said, "100 percent. 0
" We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. 0
 The wall is going to cost $10 to $12 billion, OK? 0
 Believe me, they will pay. 0
 One of the officials -- actually, one of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference. 0
And he announced that we will not be paying for the wall. 0
 Who does Mr. 0
 Trump think he is? 0
 They came to me -- the press. 0
 These people -- look at all those cameras back there. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: The press came to me and they told me that he said that he would not pay for the wall. 0
 Do you have a comment? 0
 I said, "yes. 0
 The wall just got 10 feet taller. 0
"(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: It's true. 0
 And I love Mexico. 0
 I love Mexico, I love China, I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent and don't know what they're doing. 0
 I love these countries. 0
 They're great. 0
 I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. 0
 We're going to Nevada. 0
I lead -- I lead with the Hispanics. 0
 I'm leading in every poll with the Hispanics. 0
 They love me, I love them. 0
 The problem is -- the problem is that the leaders of these countries whether it's Mexico or Japan or Viet Nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or China in particular -- that's the big one. 0
 The greatest abuse of a country that I think I've ever seen financially -- China. 0
What they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. 0
 They've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken everything. 0
 We're bringing our jobs back, folks. 0
 We're bringing our jobs back. 0
 We're going to bring them back . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: And I know how to do it. 0
 We've had so many -- we've had so many incredible endorsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important. 0
 Carl Icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me. 0
And we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when China wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a political hack which is what they have now. 0
 They're going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country. 0
(APPLAUSE) D. 0
 TRUMP: So we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. 0
 We're going to terminate Obamacare. 0
 It's going to terminated. 0
 It's going to be over . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: It's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. 0
 And you're going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost because Obamacare -- if you look -- look at the increases in your Obamacare. 0
 Twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 percent. 0
 It's dead. 0
 It's not working. 0
 We're going to go to a plan that's going to be so much better and so much less expensive. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: So second amendment by the way -- this is a room loves the second amendment. 0
 Thank you, fellows. 0
 This is a room loves and cherishes the second amendment. 0
 We are going to protect our second amendment. 0
 Totally . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Common core is gone. 0
 We are getting rid of common core. 0
 We're brining education to a local level. 0
 The people in this community -- every time I see them they want education locally. 0
 The parents, the teachers. 0
 They want to do it -- they don't want bureaucrats in Washington telling them how to educate their children. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. 0
 Not even close. 0
 More per pupil -- second place doesn't even exist it's so different. 0
 And yet out of 30 countries we're ranked number 30. 0
 You have China, you have Norway, Swenden, Denmark and then you have number 30, the United States. 0
 So we spend the most and we're at the bottom of the heap. 0
 It's not going to happen anymore, folks. 0
 It's not going to happen anymore. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: We are going to build our military which I thank because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits in Washington I -- we love our military. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: We love our military. 0
 And by the way we love our police. 0
 Our police are terrific. 0
 We love our police . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: They are not being treated properly. 0
 We're going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks. 0
(APPLAUSE) D. 0
 TRUMP: And we're going to buy -- we're going to buy the equipment that our generals, our soldiers, that everybody that's in the know want. 0
 We're not buying equipment that sells because they have political pull (ph). 0
 Because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions. 0
We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they're told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. 0
 We're going to have great equipment. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: And the reason I can say that is I'm self-funding my campaign. 0
 I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these . 0
. 0
. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicians want. 0
 That's not going to happen. 0
 And we're going to take care of our vets. 0
 We love our vets and they're being treated terribly. 0
 We're taking care of our vets. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: So we're now off to Nevada and it's a great state. 0
 We have great people. 0
 We have great people in our nation. 0
 No matter where we go -- I went to Mobile, Alabama -- 35,000 people. 0
 We went to Oklahoma recently twice -- 20,000 people, 20,000 people. 0
 No matter where we go we fill up the arenas. 0
Over here the other day we had a 9,000 -- we had a 10,000 -- we have people. 0
 The only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can't get them in. 0
 We have to send thousands of people away. 0
Time Magazine -- Time Magazine last year did an incredible cover story. 0
 They said "it's a movement. 0
" And that's what it is. 0
 It's an incredible movement with incredible people. 0
 Incredible people. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: It's an incredible movement with incredible people. 0
 I tell you. 0
 And whether we go -- honestly whether we go to Dallas or whether we go anywhere you say -- you go to L. 0
A. 0
 -- you go anywhere you say. 0
 Our people are incredible. 0
 And our theme -- what's our theme? 0
 You know it, right? 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Our theme which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? 0
 And the word again eventually is going to come off. 0
 We're going to get rid of the whole theme because what's going to happen -- make America great again, right? 0
And the last two weeks because I've gotten to see so many -- I guess millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches. 0
 And I've met so many people. 0
 But the people are so incredible that I've been saying make America great again and it's going to be greater than ever before. 0
 That's the kind of potential we have. 0
 Greater then every before. 0
(APPLAUSE)The Daily Trail newsletterA daily briefing of what's happening on the campaign trail. 0
Sign upD. 0
 TRUMP: So I want to thank everybody. 0
 I love you all. 0
 Again, South Carolina we will never forget you. 0
 We will never forget you. 0
 We will never, ever forget South Carolina. 0
 We will never forget our great volunteers. 0
 We love our volunteers. 0
 We'll never forget all of the people that have helped us so much. 0
 My family and folks, let's go. 0
Let's have a big win in Nevada. 0
 Let's have a big win at SEC (ph). 0
 Let's put this thing away and let's make America great again. 0
 Thank you very much. 0
 Thank you very much. 0
(APPLAUSE)D. 0
 TRUMP: Thank you, everybody. 0
