 Oh boy. 0
 We love Nevada. 0
 We love Nevada. 0
 Thank you. 0
 Thank you. 0
 Oh this is a great place. 0
 Thank you very much. 0
 Great evening. 0
 We will be celebrating for a long time tonight. 0
 Have a good time. 0
 Have a good time. 0
You know we weren't expecting — a couple of months ago, we weren't expecting to win this one, you know that, right? 0
 We weren't. 0
 Of course if you listen to the pundits, we weren't expected to win too much, and now we're winning, winning, winning the country. 0
 And soon the country's going to start winning, winning, winning. 0
We've had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later Florida. 0
 We love Florida so. 0
 We're going to do very well in Ohio. 0
 We're beating the governor. 0
 It's always nice to be beating the governor. 0
And Michigan — the whole thing. 0
 It's going to be an amazing two months. 0
 We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. 0
So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making speeches. 0
 He's getting better than me so I'm a little jealous. 0
 And Don … you were all over, right? 0
 He loves the rifle stuff. 0
 This is serious rifle. 0
 This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. 0
 We love the Second Amendment folks, nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that. 0
I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, the owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. 0
 and Mrs. 0
 Phil Ruffin, stand up. 0
 Great guy. 0
 Phil said, "Donald," — like for the last three months he's driving me crazy, he said — "Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign. 0
 I said, 'Phil I don't want your money. 0
 I don't want to do it. 0
 I'm self-funding. 0
' "Every time I see him. 0
 It's hard for me to turn down money because that's what I've done in my whole life, I grab and grab and grab. 0
 You know I get greedy I want money, money. 0
 I'll tell you what we're going to do, right? 0
 We get greedy right? 0
 Now we're going to get greedy for the United States we're going to grab and grab and grab. 0
 We're going to bring in so much money and so much everything. 0
 We're going to make America great again, folks, I'm telling you folks we're going to make America great again. 0
So this was very exciting tonight. 0
 But I'll tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. 0
 … It's been amazing, the relationship. 0
 So we won the evangelicals. 0
 We won with young. 0
 We won with old. 0
 We won with highly educated. 0
 We won with poorly educated. 0
 I love the poorly educated. 0
We're the smartest people, we're the most loyal people, and you know what I'm happy about? 0
 Because I've been saying it for a long time. 0
 Forty-six percent were the Hispanics — 46 percent, No. 0
 1 with Hispanics. 0
 I'm really happy about that. 0
So I'm very proud of you, this is an amazing night. 0
 I love the country, I love the country. 0
 We're going in the wrong direction. 0
 We're going to keep — as you know Gitmo, we're keeping that open, and we're going to load it up with bad dudes. 0
 We're going to load it up with a lot of bad dudes out there. 0
We're going to have our borders nice and strong. 0
 We're going to build the wall, you know that. 0
 We're going to build the wall. 0
 And I have a lot of respect from Mexico and you just heard we won Hispanics. 0
 But let me tell you Mexico is going to pay for the wall, right? 0
 It's going to happen. 0
 It's going to happen. 0
 They know it. 0
 I know it. 0
 We all know it. 0
We have a tremendous deficit. 0
 We have a trade deficit with Mexico. 0
 They'll pay for the wall. 0
 They'll be very happy about it. 0
 Believe me. 0
 I'll talk to them. 0
 They're going to be very, very thrilled. 0
 They're going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall. 0
We're going to be the smart people. 0
 We're not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. 0
 We're going to be the smart people. 0
 You're going to be proud of your president, and you're going to be even prouder of your country, okay? 0
The people of this country are absolutely amazing. 0
 I love you folks very much. 0
 Remember: Make America great again. 0
 We're going to do it, and it's going to happen fast. 0
 Thank you very much everybody. 0
 We love you. 0
 We love you. 0
