 I’m delighted to be in North Dakota, a state at the forefront of a new energy revolution. 0
 Actually, North Dakota is a state taking in a big last gasp of an old energy revolution. 0
 Burning lots of fossil fuels isn’t exactly innovative. 0
Oil and natural gas production is up significantly in the last decade. 0
 Our oil imports have been cut in half. 0
 Along with oil and natural gas production, carbon emissions are up, causing 2016 to be the hottest year on record so far. 0
But all this occurred in spite of massive new bureaucratic and political barriers. 0
 Think about this a minute. 0
 If it’s true that oil and gas production is up and oil imports have been cut in half, how can Donald Trump argue that the “massive new bureaucratic and political barriers he claims exists are wrecking the fossil fuels industry? 0
Truth: Under Barack Obama, with the cooperation of the Republicans and Democrats alike in Congress, there has been a massive DESTRUCTION of regulatory barriers to the fossil fuels industry. 0
Who opened up the Arctic seas to oil exploration? 0
 Who expanded offshore drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and along other borders? 0
 Who expanded has presided over the opening of new on-land territories to fossil fuels drilling? 0
 That would be Barack Obama. 0
Just this week, the U. 0
S. 0
 Senate voted, with the support of every single Democratic member, to approve the Energy Policy Modernization Act, a pro-corporate radical reduction in environmental regulation of the drilling and sale of fossil fuels in the United States. 0
 That’s not a massive new bureaucratic and political barrier. 0
 It’s a massive new giveaway to the fossil fuels industry. 0
President Obama has done everything he can to get in the way of American energy. 0
 He’s made life much more difficult for North Dakota, as costly regulation makes it harder and harder to turn a profit. 0
If Hillary Clinton is in charge, things will get much worse. 0
 She will shut down energy production across this country. 0
Millions of jobs, and trillions of dollars of wealth, will be destroyed as a result. 0
 Hold the presses! 0
 Donald Trump now says that money can be destroyed. 0
 Just this month, Donald Trump came up with the Weimaresque proposal of saying that the U. 0
S. 0
 federal government can simply print a large number of dollar bills in order to create wealth. 0
 So, how come he couldn’t just print money for the workers of the fossil fuels industry? 0
 Of course, to do so would be economic disaster, but the key question is: Why is Donald Trump willing to print out money for Wall Street, but not for America’s blue collar workers? 0
That is why our choice this November is so crucial. 0
Here’s what it comes down to. 0
Wealth versus poverty. 0
 Donald Trump has the merchandise he sells to accumulate his wealth manufactured by workers in countries like China, where the people are oppressed by autocratic governments and abusive bosses, and earn extremely low wages. 0
 In the United States, Donald Trump says that workers should earn lower wages than they do now. 0
 Who is Donald Trump to lecture anyone else about issues of poverty? 0
North Dakota shows how energy exploration creates shared prosperity. 0
 Better schools. 0
 More funding for infrastructure. 0
 Higher wages. 0
 Lower unemployment. 0
 Truth: Actually, unemployment is currently rising in North Dakota, because the fossil fuels bubble there turned out to be unsustainableThings we’ve been missing. 0
It’s a choice between sharing in this great energy wealth, or sharing in the poverty promised by Hillary Clinton. 0
 Fact check: Hillary Clinton has not promised poverty. 0
You don’t have to take my word for it. 0
 Just listen to Hillary Clinton’s own words. 0
 She has declared war on the American worker. 0
 Big flaming distortion: Hillary Clinton’s own words never have included anything at all like the phrase, “I am declaring war on the American worker. 0
”Here is what Hillary Clinton said earlier this year: “We are going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of work. 0
”She wants to shut down the coal mines. 0
 Shutting down coal mines isn’t the same thing as declaring war on workers. 0
 Donald Trump himself says in this speech that he believes in the ability of the marketplace to give people jobs. 0
 Why doesn’t he trust the marketplace to give people in Appalachia jobs doing anything but pulling coal out of the ground? 0
 Is the Divine Marketplace’s invisible hand truly so clumsy that it can do only one thing in this region of the United States? 0
Some people in Appalachia have proven very skillful at raising marijuana for profit. 0
 Perhaps the magical marketplace could give the people of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Tennessee and Kentucky work raising opium poppies too. 0
 That certainly would provide plenty of jobs, and if jobs and profit are all that we care about, then there’s no reason a big heroin industry couldn’t rise up in Appalachia. 0
Of course, we do care about things other than giving people any jobs at all, no matter the worth of the work and the social consequences of the industry. 0
 So, we don’t want heroin farms growing along the Appalachian Trail. 0
 Likewise, it’s time for Big Coal to go, and for new Appalachian businesses to take its place. 0
Ironically, it’s the policies that Donald Trump himself supports in this very speech that are shutting down coal mining companies – not big government conspiracies. 0
 Coal is being priced out of the market by the glut of petroleum and methane coming from the Drill Baby Drill bubble promoted by the likes of Donald Trump, Sarah Palin, and… Barack Obama. 0
 Yes, President Obama is in on the movement to expand the burning of petroleum and methane, and coal has been the loser in the process. 0
Watercolor Donald Trump washed outAnd if Crooked Hillary can shut down the mines, she can shut down your business too. 0
Let me tell you how President Obama Undermined Our Middle ClassPresident Obama’s stated intent is to eliminate oil and natural gas production in America. 0
 Truth: Barack Obama ended a ban on the export sales of fossil fuels from the United States to other countries. 0
 In doing so, Obama actually encouraged the growth of oil and natural gas production in America – the opposite of eliminating it. 0
”His policy is death by a thousand cuts through an onslaught of regulations. 0
 Truth: Barack Obama has actually reduced regulations on fossil fuels, and the purpose of the environmental regulations that remain is to prevent death. 0
 Burning fossil fuels causes premature deaths of 5. 0
5 million people every year. 0
The Environmental Protection Agency’s use of totalitarian tactics forces energy operators in North Dakota into paying unprecedented multi-billion dollar fines before a penalty is even confirmed. 0
 It’s odd to hear Donald Trump, who says he wants to build gigantic border walls, send government spies out across America to keep track of Americans’ religious practices, set up prison camps for people of what he says is the wrong religion, and conduct widespread campaigns of torture and mass execution, to complain of totalitarianism. 0
 The Environmental Protection Agency’s authority is the opposite of totalitarian. 0
 It’s legally prescribed with extreme precision in accordance with laws passed by our democratically-elected national legislature. 0
Government misconduct goes on and on:The Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against seven North Dakota oil companies for the deaths of 28 birds while the Administration fast-tracked wind projects that kill more than 1 million birds a year. 0
 Conceptually, it’s not a fair comparison to pit bird deaths caused in just one state in one incident by one industry to all the bird deaths caused all across America by another industry. 0
Factually, Donald Trump’s claims about unfair enforcement of regulations targeting only fossil fuels industries in response to the deaths of protected bird don’t hold up. 0
 Trump didn’t mention that the Obama Administration has actually prosecuted wind energy projects for the deaths of protected bird species, as in the case of a one million dollar settlement extracted from Duke Energy after 163 protected birds were killed at by turbines at a wind farm in Wyoming. 0
Not all wind turbine technology kills birds. 0
 New turbines have been designed specifically to avoid bird deaths, but yes, wind turbines do kill some birds. 0
 There is no evidence that one million birds are killed by the wind industry every year, however. 0
 Multiple millions of birds are killed by the fossil fuels industry, however. 0
According to US News and World Report, up to 28,000 birds a year are killed per year by the US solar industry. 0
 Up to 33,000 birds are killed per year by the US nuclear industry. 0
 Up to 328,000 birds are killed by the US wind energy industry. 0
 Up to 8,900,000 birds are killed by the US fossil fuels industry. 0
The U. 0
S Fish and Wildlife Service abuses the Endangered Species Act to restrict oil and gas exploration. 0
Adding to the pain, President Obama now proposes a $10-per-barrel tax on American-produced oil in the middle of a downturn. 0
 Truth: Barack Obama’s proposed $10-per-barrel tax is NOT on oil produced in the United States. 0
 It is the exact opposite of that. 0
 Obama’s proposed tax is on foreign oil imported here for sale. 0
 It’s actually a tax designed to economically help domestic fossil fuels corporations. 0
At the same time President Obama lifts economic sanctions on Iran, he imposes economic sanctions on America. 0
 He has allowed this country to hit the lowest oil rig count since 1999, producing thousands of layoffs. 0
 Obama “allowed” the count of commercial oil rigs to drop? 0
 Since when is it under the authority of the President of the United States to approve the number of oil rigs in production? 0
 Does Trump want a centrally planned economy in which corporations have to get government permission before shutting down oil rigs? 0
America’s incredible energy potential remains untapped. 0
 It is a totally self-inflicted wound. 0
 If the energy potential of the United States remains untapped, what are all those oil rigs that Donald Trump keeps talking about? 0
 What are all the fracking wells across the USA doing, if they’re not tapping into America’s energy potential? 0
 For that matter, what are the rapidly increasing number of solar panels, wind turbines, and wave generators doing, if not tapping into sources of energy? 0
Under my presidency, we will accomplish complete American energy independence. 0
Imagine a world in which our foes, and the oil cartels, can no longer use energy as a weapon. 0
But President Obama has done everything he can to keep us dependent on others. 0
 Let me list some of the good energy projects he killed. 0
He rejected the Keystone XL Pipeline despite the fact that:It would create and support more than 42,000 jobs. 0
 Actually, the Republicans in Congress voted to limit jobs that would have been created by the Keystone XL pipeline to a smaller number. 0
 When an amendment was offered that would have required the steel to construct the pipeline to come from American sources with American jobs, the Republicans said no to these American jobs. 0
The figure of 42,000 jobs from the Keystone Pipeline project has been discredited for a long time, and it’s troubling that Donald Trump chooses to repeat it despite that. 0
 TransCanada CEO Russ Girling has acknowledged that only between 10 and 20 percent of the number of jobs Trump claims can reasonably be expected to be created, and almost all of those jobs would be temporary, eliminated within 2 years. 0
 In the end, there would only be 50 permanent new jobs associated with the the Keystone XL pipeline. 0
His own State Department concluded that it would be the safest pipeline ever built in the United States. 0
And it would have no significant impact on the environment. 0
 The only way that anyone can conclude that an oil pipeline snaking across almost a thousand miles of the United States, transporting huge amounts of the lowest-grade, dirtiest tar oil to be refined and then burned, is to begin with the presumption that oil pipelines never leak, and that petroleum, when it burns, does not release toxic pollution and greenhouse gases that warm the planet. 0
 None of these beliefs are substantiated by scientific research and available facts. 0
Yet, even as he rejected this America-Canada pipeline, he made a deal that allows Iran to transport more oil through its pipeline that would have ever flowed through Keystone –with no environmental review. 0
President Obama has done everything he can to kill the coal industry. 0
 Here are a few of President Obama’s decrees:Regulations that shut down hundreds of coal-fired power plants and block the construction of new ones. 0
A prohibition against coal production on federal land. 0
Draconian climate rules that, unless stopped, would effectively bypass Congress to impose job-killing cap-and-trade. 0
 Finally, Donald Trump mentions the word “climate”. 0
 The only time Trump mentions the climate is to explain how he will prevent the United States from doing anything to confront the growing climate crisis. 0
 Donald Trump has repeatedly stated that he believes that climate change is a hoax that was concocted by the government of China in order to make Americans look stupid. 0
Does Donald Trump actually understand what cap-and-trade is? 0
 There is nothing in any current climate actions by the U. 0
S. 0
 federal government that would establish a marketplace for carbon emissions, which is what the cap-and-trade system that was proposed long ago, but never adopted, was supposed to be all about. 0
President Obama has aggressively blocked the production of oil & natural gas:He’s taken a huge percentage of the Alaska National Petroleum Reserve off the tableOil and natural gas production on federal lands is down 10%. 0
 This reduction is due to fossil fuels corporations own marketplace decisions, not new government regulations. 0
 Because the cost of oil and gas is low, the corporations don’t want to pump as much. 0
87% of available land in the Outer Continental Shelf has been put off limits. 0
 The area available for offshore drilling has actually been increased under President Obama, not decreased. 0
Atlantic Lease sales were closed down too – despite the fact that they would create 280,000 jobs and $23. 0
5 billion in economic activity. 0
 Leases were temporarily halted during the Deepwater Horizon offshore oil drilling disaster, and then started right back up. 0
 In fact, leases for offshore drilling have been expanded under Obama, not reduced. 0
President Obama entered the United States into the Paris Climate Accords – unilaterally, and without the permission of Congress. 0
 This agreement gives foreign bureaucrats control over how much energy we use right here in America. 0
These actions have denied millions of Americans access to the energy wealth sitting under our feet. 0
 Actually, the Paris Accords don’t actually have any new obligations for the United States. 0
 The problem with the Paris Accords is that they’re too weak, consisting of reiteration a voluntary commitments to actions that were already taken. 0
 There is nothing in the Paris Accords that requires the United States to do anything other than continue with the provisions that are already contained in Article 4 of the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 0
 Congress already approved those provisions, which were established under a Republican President. 0
 Yes, the Paris Accords mean that the United States is just continuing to take actions that were begun 24 years ago. 0
 They Paris Accords were little more than a public relations gimmick – and Donald Trump won’t even go along with that. 0
This is your treasure, and you – the American People – are entitled to share in the riches. 0
 If the “treasure” belongs to the American people, how come fossil fuels companies are making all of the profit from it? 0
 The Williston Basin Petroleum Conference and the American People aren’t the same thing. 0
 Donald Trump isn’t proposing that the American People will be given a share of fossil fuel industry profits. 0
President Obama’s anti-energy orders have also weakened our security, by keeping us reliant on foreign sources of energy. 0
 If America’s security has been weakened under Barack Obama, how come annual rates of terrorism are lower now than they were under George W. 0
 Bush? 0
Actually, US reliance on foreign sources of energy has decreased during the Obama Administration. 0
Every dollar of energy we don’t explore here, is a dollar of energy that makes someone else rich over there. 0
If President Obama wanted to weaken America he couldn’t have done a better job. 0
As bad as President Obama is, Hillary Clinton will be worse. 0
She will escalate the war against American energy, and unleash the EPA to control every aspect of our lives. 0
Hillary Clinton has announced no plan to allow the EPA to control every aspect of American lives. 0
There is no war against American energy. 0
 There is a shift from dirty energy sources that ceased to innovative 100 years ago to new, cleaner, innovative sources of American energy. 0
She declared that “we’ve got to move away from coal and all the other fossil fuels,” locking away trillions in American wealth. 0
Shifting from dirty fossil fuels technology to cleaner, new forms of energy technology won’t lock away trillions in American wealth any more than the shift from postal mail to email locked away trillions of dollars. 0
 Donald Trump’s position is to defend a dangerous old system that is quickly being depleted, and which causes huge numbers of illnesses and fatalities every year. 0
 The disease and death caused by fossil fuels is a genuine destruction of the highest form of American wealth. 0
”In March, Hillary Clinton said: “by the time we get through all of my conditions, I do not think there will be many places in America where fracking will continue to take place. 0
” Keep in mind, shale energy production could add 2 million jobs in 7 years. 0
Once again, Donald Trump exaggerates the potential for job growth from shale fracking. 0
 North Dakotans are seeing that fracking jobs are short lived. 0
 There’s a disruptive boom and bust cycle to the fossil fuels industry that doesn’t exist with the steady growth of sustainable energies, because the wind, sun, and coastal waves aren’t in limited supplies, as fossil fuels are. 0
 The idea that almost one in every one hundred fifty Americans could have a job with fracking companies is an obvious exaggeration, and a dishonest one, based on a kind of shell game in which short-term jobs pop in in areas opened up to fracking, and then disappear, as short-term jobs then pop up again somewhere else. 0
 Most of these aren’t really new jobs. 0
 They’re the same old jobs, shifting around. 0
What’s more, the areas still open for new fracking are quickly becoming scarce, because increasing numbers of communities are passing laws banning fracking. 0
 They don’t want to have their communities disrupted, and have their drinking water polluted just for the promise of a flash-in-the-pan profit, most of which will leave town to go to fossil fuels corporate investors. 0
Yet, while Hillary Clinton doesn’t want American energy, she is strongly in favor of foreign energy. 0
 Here is what she told China as Secretary of State:“American experts and Chinese experts will work to develop China’s natural gas resources. 0
 Imagine what it would mean for China if China unleashed its own natural gas resources so you are not dependent on foreign oil. 0
”Hillary Clinton has her priorities wrong. 0
 But we are going to turn all of that around. 0
A Trump Administration will develop an America First energy plan. 0
 Here is how this plan will make America Wealthy Again:American energy dominance will be declared a strategic economic and foreign policy goal of the United States. 0
America has 1. 0
5 times as much oil as the combined proven resources of all OPEC countries; we have more Natural Gas than Russia, Iran, Qatar and Saudi Arabia Combined; we have three times more coal than Russia. 0
 Our total untapped oil and gas reserves on federal lands equal an estimated $50 trillion. 0
 These statistics are just plain false. 0
 Saudi Arabia, just one OPEC country, has 6 times the oil reserves of the United States. 0
 The United States actually has only around 10% of the natural gas as Russia, Iran, Qatar and Saudi Arabia combined. 0
 If Donald Trump can’t get these simple facts straight, how can he ever craft an energy policy that makes sense? 0
We will become, and stay, totally independent of any need to import energy from the OPEC cartel or any nations hostile to our interests. 0
At the same time, we will work with our Gulf allies to develop a positive energy relationship as part of our anti-terrorism strategy. 0
 Actually, Donald Trump’s strategy is not to work with America’s international allies, but to “rattle” them with bluster and intimidation. 0
 As the Dakota Free Press points out, Donald Trump told reporters in North Dakota that he believes it’s a good thing to antagonize allies, saying, “When you rattle someone, that’s good. 0
” Donald Trump’s foreign policy is more likely to trigger a new war than it is to develop positive energy relationships. 0
We will use the revenues from energy production to rebuild our roads, schools, bridges and public infrastructure. 0
 Cheaper energy will also boost American agriculture. 0
We will get the bureaucracy out of the way of innovation, so we can pursue all forms of energy. 0
 This includes renewable energies and the technologies of the future. 0
 It includes nuclear, wind and solar energy – but not to the exclusion of other energy. 0
 The government should not pick winners and losers. 0
 Instead, it should remove obstacles to exploration. 0
 Any market has ups and downs, but lifting these draconian barriers will ensure that we are no longer at the mercy of global markets. 0
 Pursuing all forms of energy includes burning shit. 0
 It includes garbage incinerators. 0
 Removing “obstacles” means lowering safety standards, making fatal disasters like the Deepwater Horizon and ecological calamaties like the Exxon Valdez more likely. 0
 If ordinary Americans end up being on the losing side of these environmental disasters, Donald Trump’s plan is to simply shrug and justify the damage by the profits they bring to wealthy corporate investors. 0
 Donald Trump’s plan actually will pick winners and losers. 0
 The losers will always be individual Americans suffering from pollution and climate change. 0
 The winners will always be corporations that profit from environmental destruction. 0
A Trump Administration will focus on real environmental challenges, not phony ones: Actually, Donald Trump’s plan is to reduce Earth’s natural ecosystems to tiny remnants of what they once were. 0
 In 2015, Trump told Fox News personality Chris Wallace that, “We’ll be fine with the environment. 0
 We can leave a little bit. 0
”We will reject Hillary Clinton’s poverty-expansion agenda that enriches her friends and makes everyone else poor. 0
We’ll solve real environmental problems in our communities like the need for clean and safe drinking water. 0
 President Obama actually tried to cut the funding for our drinking water infrastructure – even as he pushed to increase funding for his EPA bureaucrats. 0
 Donald Trump has issued no plan for dealing with Flint’s crisis of lead contamination of its drinking water, or for dealing with the larger crisis of pollution of America’s drinking water. 0
 Trump has said that he doesn’t want to talk about Flint, that he “shouldn’t be commenting on Flint”. 0
 Donald Trump’s plan for more oil drilling, more oil pipelines, more burning of fossil fuels, and the elimination of environmental protections is actually a plan for making Americans’ drinking water less fit for consumption. 0
American workers will be the ones building this new infrastructure. 0
Here is my 100-day action plan: It’s difficult to refute a candidate’s promises about the future. 0
 There’s a great deal we don’t know about what the first 100 days of the next presidency will be like. 0
 If Republicans in Congress continue to endorse Donald Trump, the Democrats could well take back both legislative houses. 0
 To be generous, let’s suppose that Donald Trump will actually have the political wherewithal to do what he says he will do. 0
We’re going to rescind all the job-destroying Obama executive actions including the Climate Action Plan and the Waters of the U. 0
S. 0
 rule. 0
 How many jobs have been destroyed by investments being made to slow down and mitigate for the impact of climate change? 0
 Donald Trump doesn’t offer any facts to back up his assertion that climate action destroys jobs. 0
 The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development concludes that, “Economic modelling suggests that ambitious climate-change mitigation policies could be good for jobs as well as the environment. 0
”We’re going to save the coal industry and other industries threatened by Hillary Clinton’s extremist agenda. 0
 Fight Hillary Clinton’s agenda all you want, but the coal industry is under greater threat from the petroleum industry and the fracking industry than it is from Hillary Clinton. 0
I’m going to ask Trans Canada to renew its permit application for the Keystone Pipeline. 0
 George W. 0
 Bush encouraged TransCanada to apply for the legal exemptions needed to build the Keystone XL Pipeline, but it didn’t happen during his two-term administration. 0
 What would Donald Trump do differently than Bush? 0
We’re going to lift moratoriums on energy production in federal areas We’ll see drilling in Yellowstone, pipelines in Yosemite, and coal mining in the Great Smoky Mountain National Park under Donald Trump’s plan… Or we could simply use more solar, wind, geothermal, and tidal power sources. 0
We’re going to revoke policies that impose unwarranted restrictions on new drilling technologies. 0
 These technologies create millions of jobs with a smaller footprint than ever before. 0
 Exactly which policies and which regulations does Donald Trump plan to revoke? 0
 He doesn’t name any. 0
 Does he even know what any are? 0
We’re going to cancel the Paris Climate Agreement and stop all payments of U. 0
S. 0
 tax dollars to U. 0
N. 0
 global warming programs. 0
 Given that the Paris Accords don’t involve any new financial obligations for the United States, canceling U. 0
S. 0
 involvement in the Paris Accords won’t actually save any money. 0
 As for U. 0
N. 0
 programs on global warming, does Donald Trump believe that if U. 0
N. 0
 scientists simply stop studying the problem, it will go away? 0
The United States already owes the United Nations $1. 0
3 billion that, even under Barack Obama, there are no plans to pay. 0
 Yet, in spite of this lack of American support, the United Nations continues to work on global warming. 0
 How does Trump plan to change that? 0
 By not paying the money that the USA is already not paying? 0
Any regulation that is outdated, unnecessary, bad for workers, or contrary to the national interest will be scrapped. 0
 We will also eliminate duplication, provide regulatory certainty, and trust local officials and local residents. 0
 What about when local residents say they don’t want oil drilling and fracking? 0
 Will Donald Trump trust their judgment and allow fracking and drilling bans to continue? 0
Any future regulation will go through a simple test: is this regulation good for the American worker? 0
 If it doesn’t pass this test, the rule will not be approved. 0
 How exactly will Donald Trump scrap regulations and impose his ideological litmus test, when regulations are established by law through acts of Congress? 0
Policy decisions will be public and transparent. 0
 They won’t be made on Hillary’s private email account. 0
 How transparent has Donald Trump’s campaign been? 0
 When there were criminal allegations against Trump’s campaign manager, how transparent was Trump about that? 0
 What habits of transparency has Donald Trump demonstrated so far? 0
We’re going to do all this while taking proper regard for rational environmental concerns. 0
 We are going to conserve our beautiful natural habitats, reserves and resources. 0
 How can Donald Trump simultaneously promise to conserve beautiful natural habitats while promising to do away with the regulations that prevent drilling for oil, fracking, and coal mining in national parks, while also unraveling the environmental protections that make drilling and mining cleaner and safer than they would otherwise be? 0
In a Trump Administration, political activists with extreme agendas will no longer write the rules. 0
 Instead, we will work with conservationists whose only agenda is protecting nature. 0
From an environmental standpoint, my priorities are very simple: clean air and clean water. 0
 How can Donald Trump’s priorities be clean air and water, when he wants to increase the amount of fossil fuels that are burned, releasing record-breaking amounts of toxins into America’s air and water? 0
My America First energy plan will do for the American People what Hillary Clinton will never do: create real jobs and real wage growth. 0
 The fossil fuels industry that Donald Trump wants to rely upon actually has an extremely poor record of creating reliable jobs. 0
 In the Pennsylvania Marcellus Shale, for example, fracking companies have been laying off workers, regardless of Pennsylvania’s relatively lax environmental regulations, because the business model of the fracking industry relies upon being able to create jobs quickly… and then destroy them just as quickly. 0
According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on American energy will create a flood of new jobs:Almost a $700 billion increase in annual economic output over the next 30 years. 0
More than a $30 billion increase in annual wages over the next 7 years. 0
Over the next four decades, more than $20 trillion in additional economic activity and $6 trillion in new tax revenue. 0
The oil and natural gas industry supports 10 million high-paying Americans jobs and can create another 400,000 new jobs per year. 0
 This exploration will also create a resurgence in American manufacturing — dramatically reducing both our trade deficit and our budget deficit. 0
Compare this future to Hillary Clinton’s Venezuela-style politics of poverty. 0
If you think about it, not one idea Hillary Clinton has will actually create a single net job or create a single new dollar to put in workers’ pockets. 0
 In fact, every idea Hillary has will make jobs disappear. 0
 Hillary Clinton’s agenda is job destruction. 0
 My agenda is job creation. 0
 These claims are silly. 0
 One can have a reasoned argument about which candidates’ energy plans have the greatest potential to create new jobs, but to say that not one idea Hillary Clinton has will create a single net job or put any money in workers’ pockets is absurd. 0
 In fact, Hillary Clinton’s energy policy focuses on job growth through the exploitation of a mix of fossil fuels and sustainable energy sources. 0
 Clinton is not, as Trump has suggested elsewhere, proposing a ban on fracking – though perhaps she should. 0
 Clinton’s energy plan begins with the following words: “Create good-paying jobs by making the United States the clean energy superpower of the 21st century. 0
 Set national goals to have 500 million solar panels installed; generate enough renewable energy to power every home in America; cut energy waste in homes, schools, and hospitals by a third; and reduce American oil consumption by a third. 0
”She wants to tax and regulate our workers to the point of extinction. 0
 In Hillary Clinton’s own words, the intent of her economic policy is to “Give working families a raise, and tax relief that helps them manage rising costs. 0
”She wants terrible trade deals, like NAFTA, signed by her husband, that will empty out our manufacturing. 0
During her time as Secretary of State, she surrendered to China – allowing them to steal hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property. 0
She let them devalue their currency and add more than a trillion dollars to our trade deficit. 0
Then there was Libya. 0
Secretary Clinton’s reckless Libya invasion handed the country over to ISIS, which now controls the oil. 0
The Middle East that Clinton inherited was far less dangerous than the Middle East she left us with today. 0
Her reckless decisions in Iraq, Libya, Iran, Egypt and Syria have made the Middle East more unstable than ever before. 0
 Once, when Donald Trump was competing against Jeb Bush, Trump said that George W. 0
 Bush was to blame for the mess in the Middle East. 0
 Now that he’s competing against Hillary Clinton, Trump says it’s all Hillary Clinton’s fault. 0
 Which version of the truth will Trump go with next? 0
The Hillary Clinton foreign policy legacy is chaos. 0
Hillary Clinton also wants totally open borders in America, which would further plunge our workers into poverty. 0
Hillary’s open borders agenda means a young single mom living in poverty would have to compete for a job or a raise against millions of lower-wage workers rushing into the country, but she doesn’t care. 0
My agenda will be accomplished through a series of reforms that put America First:Energy reform that creates trillions in new wealth. 0
Immigration reform that protects our borders and defends our workers. 0
Tax reform that brings millions of new jobs to America. 0
Regulation reform that eliminates stupid rules that send our jobs overseas. 0
Welfare reform that requires employers to recruit from the unemployment office – not the immigration office. 0
Trade reform that brings back our manufacturing jobs and stands up to countries that cheat. 0
There is one more thing we must do to make America wealthy again: we have to make our communities safe again. 0
Violent crime is rising in major cities across the country. 0
 This is unacceptable. 0
 Every parent has the right to raise their kids in safety. 0
 Fact check: Violent crime is not rising in major cities across the country. 0
 It’s been at relatively low levels since the early 1990s. 0
When we put political correctness before justice, we hurt those who have the least. 0
 It undermines their schools, slashes the value of their homes, and drives away their jobs. 0
 How does being respectful to people undermine schools, decrease housing values, and drive away jobs? 0
Crime is a stealth tax on the poor. 0
To those living in fear, I say: help is coming. 0
 A Trump Administration will return law and order to America. 0
 Security is not something that should only be enjoyed by the rich and powerful. 0
By the way, I was endorsed by the National Rifle Association, and we are not going to let Hillary Clinton abolish the 2nd amendment, either. 0
 Hillary Clinton has no plan to abolish the 2nd amendment. 0
My reform agenda is going to bring wealth and security to the poorest communities in this country. 0
What does Hillary have to offer the poor but more of the same? 0
In Chicago, for instance, one-fourth of young Hispanics and one-third of young African-Americans are unemployed. 0
My message today to all the people trapped in poverty is this: politicians like Hillary Clinton have failed you. 0
They have used you. 0
You need something new. 0
 I am the only who will deliver it. 0
We are going to put America back to work. 0
 What good is putting America back to work, when Donald Trump says he wants to lower wages, and print extra money, which will trigger inflation, making workers’ expenses higher at the very same time as their income drops? 0
 Getting back to work without a living wage doesn’t help anyone – except the corporations that profit from their labor. 0
We are going to put people before government. 0
We are going to rebuild our inner cities. 0
 This is a 1980s talking point. 0
 Of course there are communities that have problems, but mostly, America’s inner cities have been rebuilt. 0
 As Jim’s article about the relatively high prevalence of violent crime in rural schools reflects, it’s not inner cities that are most troubled. 0
 It’s the Republican-administered rural areas that are suffering most, especially from the latest opioid addiction surge. 0
We are going to make you and your family safe, secure and prosperous. 0
The choice in November is a choice between a Clinton Agenda that puts Donors First – or a new agenda that puts America First. 0
 Donald Trump has now gone back on his promise not to rely on outside donors, and is actively seeking big money contributors to his presidential campaign. 0
It is a choice between a Clinton government of, by and for the powerful – or a return to government of, by and for the people. 0
 How can a billionaire who got ahead in life by inheriting over $200 million from his father, whose policies favor powerful corporations while lowering the wages of workers, claim to stand against the powerful? 0
It is a choice between certain decline, or a revival of America’s promise. 0
The people in charge of our government say things can’t change. 0
 Actually, Barack Obama originally campaigned for President with promise of “change”. 0
 The Hillary Clinton campaign celebrates a statement by President Bill Clinton that Hillary is “the single best changemaker” Politicians talk about change all the time. 0
I am here to tell you that things have to change. 0
They want you to keep trusting the same people who’ve betrayed you. 0
 What has Donald Trump done to win any voter’s trust? 0
I am here to tell you that if you keep supporting those who’ve let you down, then you will keep getting let down for the rest of your life. 0
I am prepared to kick the special interests out of Washington, D. 0
C. 0
 and to hand their seat of power over to you. 0
 In what way is the Williston Basin Petroleum Conference not a special interest? 0
It’s about time. 0
Together, we will put the American people first again. 0
We will make our communities wealthy again. 0
We will make our cities safe again. 0
We will make our country strong again. 0
Ladies and Gentlemen: We will make America Great Again. 0
