 GOP front runner Donald Trump sits down with Chris Wallace for an exclusive interview to discuss his campaign strategy and explaining his comments about 9/11 and George W. 0
 Bush, his usage of Social Media and it's impact upon his image going forward in the campaign. 0
 "Look, look, Jeb said we were safe with my brother," Trump said. 0
 "Well, the World Trade Center just fell down! 0
 Now, am I trying to blame him? 0
 I'm not blaming anybody. 0
 But the World Trade Center came down. 0
 So when he said, we were safe, that's not safe. 0
 We lost 3,000 people, it was one of the greatest - probably the greatest catastrophe ever in this country if you think about it, right? 0
""I'm not blaming George Bush. 0
 But I don't want Jeb Bush to say my brother kept us safe because September 11 was one of the worst days in the history of this country. 0
"Transcript:CHRIS WALLACE, HOST: Mr. 0
 Trump, good to see you again. 0
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Thank you. 0
WALLACE: It becomes almost a cliche in this political cycle that people are fed up with politicians, but back when you announced in June, most of the so-called experts including me, thought you had no chance and that people would end up voting for somebody with political experience. 0
How did you know that discontent, frustration with the system, would be the prevailing mood in 2015? 0
TRUMP: I felt it. 0
 I mean I felt it from within. 0
 We have tremendous discontent in the country. 0
 We have tremendous problems in the country. 0
 And I felt it early on or I wouldn't have done this. 0
 But I see tremendous discontent. 0
WALLACE: Before we dig down into some issues, I want to see how much of a disruptor you would be. 0
 And let's do a lightning round quick questions--TRUMP: OK. 0
WALLACE: -- quick answers. 0
Would you be willing to use the debt limit and risk the possibility of the country going into default to get more spending cuts? 0
TRUMP: I would use the debt limit. 0
 I don't want to say -- I want to be unpredictable, because, you know, we need unpredictability. 0
 Everything is so predictable with our country. 0
But I would be very, very strong on the debt limit. 0
 And I would be asking for a very big pound of flesh if I were the Republicans. 0
 And the problem with the Republicans, they have two sides. 0
 The smaller side is very strong and the other side is always agreeing and, you know, you can't do that. 0
WALLACE: Would you be willing to shut down the government in order to defund Planned Parenthood or to push some other key policy goal? 0
TRUMP: I do not want to say that because I want to show unpredictability. 0
 You have to. 0
 You can't just go around and say that. 0
But Planned Parenthood should absolutely be defunded. 0
 I mean if you look at what's going on with that, it's terrible. 0
 And many other things should be defunded and many things should be cut. 0
WALLACE: You said in August that you're, quote, "fine" with affirmative action. 0
 What about conservatives who say the time for that kind of preferential treatment has come and gone. 0
TRUMP: I'm fine with it, we have it, it's there. 0
 But it's coming to a time when maybe we don't need it. 0
 That would be a wonderful thing. 0
 I don't think we need it so much anymore. 0
 You know, it has served its place, it has served its time. 0
 Some people have loved it and some people don't like it at all. 0
But I think there will be a time when you don't need it. 0
WALLACE: You are one of the few candidates who has come out with a detailed tax plan. 0
 Let's drill down into that. 0
You would cut the seven tax brackets to four. 0
Zero, 10%, 20%, 25. 0
 You'd cut the corporate tax rate from 35% to 15. 0
 You would limit deductions for higher-income earners. 0
 And you would eliminate "carried interest" preferential tax treatment for hedge funders. 0
 What's the thinking? 0
TRUMP: Well the thinking is we have the highest tax rate in the world. 0
 In the entire world, we have the highest tax rate. 0
 There's gridlock in Washington because there's no leadership. 0
 So what I'm doing is a large tax cut especially for the middle class and they're gonna- we're going to have a dynamic country. 0
 We're going to have dynamic economics. 0
 And it's going to be something really special. 0
 And people are going back to work. 0
WALLACE: But there are 2 concerns. 0
 The conservative Tax Foundation, conservative Tax Foundation says that over 10 years you would create; you would add $10 trillion to the deficit. 0
 And there's also the question of who would benefit under your tax plan. 0
 The Tax Foundation says the middle class would see after-tax income increase 7. 0
2%. 0
 The top 1 percent would see a spike of 21. 0
6 percent. 0
So between that and ending the estate tax the Trump family and folks like you would make out great. 0
TRUMP: The estate tax has been a disaster. 0
 First of all it's double taxation, some people could even say it's triple taxation. 0
WALLACE: But how about the idea that you're going to blow a hole in the deficit and that the top 1% going to make out a lot better than the middle class. 0
TRUMP: Well they're going to make out better if the economy gets better. 0
 The economy is very sick. 0
 We're losing our jobs to China to Japan to every country. 0
 We're making horrible trade deals. 0
 We are losing jobs in this country. 0
 Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs are being lost. 0
 And part of the reason is our taxes are so high in this country. 0
 I'm also cutting, you know they don't talk about that. 0
 And I'm doing that in a different, little policy segment that we're going to be announcing-WALLACE: Cutting spending. 0
TRUMP: But we're going to be cutting tremendous amounts of money and waste and fraud and abuse. 0
 You know they had a case. 0
WALLACE: Would you cut services? 0
 Would you cut departments? 0
TRUMP: I'm not cutting services. 0
 But I'm cutting spending. 0
 But I may cut Department of Education. 0
 I believe common core is a very bad thing. 0
 I believe that we should be lo -- you know, educating our children from Iowa, from New Hampshire, from South Carolina, from California, from New York. 0
 I think that it should be local education. 0
If you look at a Jeb Bush and some of these others, they want them to be educated by -- by Washington, DC bureaucrats. 0
 So Department of Education is one. 0
Environmental protection, what they do is a disgrace. 0
 Every week they come out with new regulations. 0
 They're making it impossible. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: Who's going to protect the environment? 0
TRUMP: -- they -- we'll be fine with the environment. 0
 We can leave a little bit, but you can't destroy businesses. 0
WALLACE: You brought up trade. 0
 You would end NAFTA. 0
 You would kill the Pacific Trade Agreement. 0
 You would impose tariffs on some products like 35 percent on Ford cars made in Mexico. 0
 "The Wall Street Journal" says that you are running as, quote, "the most anti-trade candidate since Herbert Hoover. 0
"TRUMP: OK, so here's the deal. 0
 First of all, "The Wall Street Journal" was bought for $5 billion. 0
 It's now worth $500 million, OK. 0
 They don't have to tell me what to do. 0
 "The Wall Street Journal" has been wrong so many different times about so many different things. 0
 I am all for free trade, but it's got to be fair. 0
 When Ford moves their massive plant to Mexico, we get nothing. 0
 We lose all of these jobs. 0
What do we get out of it? 0
I don't want them to move their plants. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: But I want to pick up on that because. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: No, the -- the point is, I don't want them to move their plants. 0
 I want them to stay in Michigan. 0
 I want them to stay in all of the places where they are, or expanding to other places. 0
 But I want it to be in the United States. 0
 I don't want them to go to Mexico. 0
I don't want them to go to China. 0
WALLACE: This brings up the point, the conservative American Enterprise Institute says, look, Donald Trump, he owns a dozen hotels, properties, all over the world. 0
 Your Trump Collection clothing line, some of it is made in Mexico. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: It's true. 0
WALLACE: -- and -- and China. 0
TRUMP: That's true. 0
WALLACE: And. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: I want it to be made here. 0
WALLACE: I know. 0
 But the point they say is you're doing just what Ford is, you're taking. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: Sure. 0
WALLACE: -- advantage of a global trading market. 0
TRUMP: I never dispute that. 0
 I put it in my speeches. 0
 I say it -- the ties are made in China and different things. 0
 I don't want that. 0
 I just ordered 4,000 television sets. 0
You know where they come from? 0
South Korea. 0
 And yet we defend South Korea for practically nothing. 0
 We have 28,000 soldiers. 0
 They're making a fortune. 0
 I don't want to order them from South Korea. 0
 I don't think anybody makes television sets in the United States anymore. 0
 I don't want to order from South Korea. 0
 I want to order from here. 0
 I talk about it all the time. 0
 We don't make anything anymore. 0
Now you look at Boeing. 0
 Boeing's going over to China. 0
 They're going to build a massive plant because China's demanding it in order to order airplanes from Boeing. 0
 So Boeing now is going to China, building a massive plant. 0
 I don't want that. 0
 I don't want that. 0
WALLACE: You say that eminent domain is wonderful, and you --TRUMP: I didn't say wonderful, I say eminent domain is something you need Chris. 0
 Eminent domain - if I build a highway - go ahead. 0
 I know exactly what you're saying. 0
 But if I build a highway, and if something's in the way of the highway, you're going to have to do something with that. 0
WALLACE: I understand that. 0
 And that's the idea of using - taking private property for a public use. 0
 But -TRUMP: And by the way, people get paid for it. 0
 Everyone thinks they don't get paid. 0
 They get paid a lot of money. 0
WALLACE: I understand. 0
 But in the Kelo case, the big Supreme Court case in 2005, they took somebody's home and they sold it and then paid - bought it. 0
 And then they gave it - sold it - to private entrepreneurs, private developers. 0
 And that's the question -- TRUMP: That's different. 0
WALLACE: But that's the question I'm going to ask you --TRUMP: But that's different. 0
WALLACE: Do you support taking private property for private use? 0
TRUMP: If somebody has a property in the middle of a 7,000 job factory, as an example, that's going to move into the town - but they need this one corner of this property, and it's going to provide 7,000 jobs in a community that's dying, of which we have many in this country, OK? 0
 I am for that. 0
 That's a big economic development. 0
 But remember this: all of these people that we're talking about, they're friends of mine. 0
 They all love the Keystone Pipeline, right? 0
The Keystone Pipeline is all eminent domain. 0
 They're building that pipeline without eminent domain, you wouldn't be able to build. 0
WALLACE: But let me ask you since you were involved in a case like this, as you know, in the 90s --TRUMP: That's true. 0
 That was an economic development. 0
WALLACE: -- in Atlantic City. 0
TRUMP: Sure. 0
WALLACE: You had your hotel, and you wanted to build a parking lot where some woman had her house --TRUMP: She saved me a fortune. 0
WALLACE: But I guess the question is why do you need to take her house, for a parking lot? 0
TRUMP: I tell you what. 0
 Because I have a hotel, and in order to expand the hotel and add 2,000 rooms, I would have had to take her thing. 0
 Now, the 2,000 rooms would have provided about 2,500 jobs, Ultimately offered a lot of money, she didn't take it, I didn't build the job. 0
 I didn't do it. 0
 Saved me a lot of money because Atlantic City, you know, I had the good sense to leave 7 years ago. 0
 I got very lucky. 0
 Yeah, I think that would have been a good eminent domain because you would have provided thousands of jobs. 0
 And this is a woman who couldn't have cared less about her house. 0
 All she wanted was money. 0
WALLACE: Something you said on Friday has stirred up some controversy about George W. 0
 Bush and the Twin Towers. 0
WALLACE: Question: do you blame George W. 0
 Bush for 9/11? 0
TRUMP: Look, look, Jeb said we were safe with my brother. 0
 We were safe. 0
 Well, the World Trade Center just fell down! 0
 Now, am I trying to blame him? 0
 I'm not blaming anybody. 0
 But the World Trade Center came down. 0
 So when he said, we were safe, that's not safe. 0
 We lost 3,000 people, it was one of the greatest - probably the greatest catastrophe ever in this country if you think about it, right? 0
WALLACE: What would you have done? 0
 TRUMP: Well, I would have been much different, I must tell you. 0
 Somebody said, well, it wouldn't have been any different. 0
 Well, it would have been. 0
 I am extremely, extremely tough on illegal immigration. 0
 I'm extremely tough on people coming into this country. 0
 I believe that if I were running things, I doubt those families would have - I doubt that those people would have been in the country. 0
 So there's a good chance that those people would not have been in our country. 0
With that being said, I'm not blaming George Bush. 0
 But I don't want Jeb Bush to say my brother kept us safe becauseSeptember 11 was one of the worst days in the history of this country. 0
END OF FIRST SEGMENT CHRIS WALLACE, HOST: Let's look at the polls. 0
 According to the latest Real Clear Politics average, you are leading everywhere. 0
 You are leading, nationally, you're leading in all the early states. 0
 Nationally, you're at 23. 0
8 percent, leading; down 7 points in the last month. 0
 In Iowa, 22. 0
3 percent, down 6 points. 0
 New Hampshire; 26. 0
3 percent, down 6 points. 0
Let me make it clear, because I know this is important to you -(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: You are still leading. 0
 Why do you think your numbers have gone down a bit? 0
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't think they've gone down. 0
 I think they've gone up. 0
 We just had a Reuters poll come out. 0
 I'm at 33. 0
 We just had, as you know, Nevada come out. 0
 I'm 20 points ahead of second place. 0
 We had one come out in South Carolina where I'm 18 or 20 points ahead. 0
 The polls have been now better than they've ever been. 0
 And what you're doing is a little bit obsolete information. 0
 But that's OK. 0
 Look, I'm leading in everything. 0
WALLACE: Late this week, you forced, I think it's fair to say - you and Ben Carson - forced CNBC to change the ground rules for their debate. 0
 And Carly Fiorina went after you and Carson. 0
 She said, first of all, what are they scared about, standing up for three hours? 0
 And then she said this:TAPE: CARLY FIORINA/The Kelly File/ThursdayThey also apparently asked for prepared statements-you know prepared statements are what politicians do. 0
 So honestly, here are 2 outsiders supposedly, Donald Trump and Ben Carson, and they sound a lot like politicians tonight to me. 0
 (END VIDEO CLIP)TRUMP: Look, first of all, she's going nowhere. 0
 You talk about dropping in the polls, she's dropped like a rock. 0
 I could stand there for 12 hours. 0
 I could stand there for 20 hours. 0
 But the people can't take it. 0
 Who wants to watch a debate for three hours? 0
 I couldn't watch Hillary for an hour-and-a-half. 0
 And when I heard it was a three-hour debate that was only done to make more money for the company, for the network, I said, I'm not going to participate because I thought that the CNN debate was ridiculous. 0
 It was too long and people were turning off- who's going to watch a debate that long? 0
 You know, it used to be one hour when it started. 0
 It used to also get no ratings. 0
 And both CNN and Fox broke the all-time record on cable television. 0
 So I wonder why. 0
 Do you have any idea why? 0
WALLACE: I think - it - maybe it was because of the moderators. 0
TRUMP: I think so. 0
WALLACE: (LAUGHS)TRUMP: I do think so. 0
 Great moderators. 0
WALLACE: Which brings me to the question of temperament, which I think you would agree is important --TRUMP: I think it's very important. 0
 WALLACE: -- in a president. 0
 First of all, what's the deal with the tweets? 0
 Why are you sitting there at night watching TV and tweeting out? 0
TRUMP: Well, I think it's fine. 0
 It's a great way of getting my word out. 0
 I love Twitter and tweeting, and I have - between that and Facebook, I have like 10 million followers. 0
 It's a great way. 0
 Now if you do something bad to me, I can tweet about Chris. 0
 And the world will be seeing it. 0
WALLACE: (LAUGHS) And you have. 0
TRUMP: No, and you know what? 0
 Truthfully, it's an amazing way of getting the word out. 0
WALLACE: But-- but does Mrs. 0
 Trump ever say, 'Donald, turn off the TV? 0
 Come to bed. 0
'? 0
TRUMP: Oh, I don't do that much. 0
 And usually it's not too late. 0
 No, I just think it's an amazing way - you know, we're in a modern age now. 0
 We have to get with it. 0
 Twitter and Facebook and all of this stuff is, to me, I mean it's, for some reason - I'm probably not the youngest person using it. 0
 But for some reason, it works very well. 0
 I'm setting records. 0
 In fact, for the debate, you know - I'm talking about the Democrat debate - and they use Democratic. 0
 It's really Democrat. 0
 You know that, OK? 0
 They called that wrong. 0
 It's really the Democrat. 0
 But the Democrat debate, I picked up more followers by many times than anybody else. 0
 And there were those that said I won the debate because I picked up all the followers. 0
 But no, I think it's a great, modern way of getting the word out. 0
WALLACE: During the campaign, you have called Marco Rubio a puppet, Jeb Bush low energy, Rand Paul a lightweight. 0
 And just this week, you called Bernie Sanders a maniac. 0
TRUMP: And a communist. 0
WALLACE: (LAUGHS) And a communist. 0
 Do you think that's presidential --TRUMP: Yes. 0
WALLACE: Is that the way you would act in the White House? 0
TRUMP: I'm running against a lot of people. 0
 And if they come out and attack me, very viciously, very viciously. 0
 I mean, Perry, I thought he was a nice guy. 0
 He was always a friend of mine. 0
 He had won campaign contributions. 0
 He was always very nice. 0
 All of a sudden, boom, I hit him very hard. 0
 I hit Rand Paul very hard. 0
 Look what happened to him. 0
I'm a counterpuncher. 0
 I don't have a choice. 0
 If you look what they say about me, it's terrible. 0
 I mean, they say terrible things about me. 0
 Bobby Jindal - I mean, you talk about lightweights, this guy is a real lightweight. 0
 And he hit me - I don't even know this man - and he hit me because - and they're not hitting me on fact. 0
 They're hitting me in order to try to pick up something in their polls. 0
 The thing I'm most honored about is every single person that went after me, including Jeb Bush, who's down - boom. 0
 Every single person that went after me has gone way down. 0
 And I'm very honored by that. 0
 And that's what the country needs. 0
 The country needs a leader that when the country gets hit, we're going to come out on top, not keep going down. 0
 Because we're going down. 0
 Our country is going down. 0
WALLACE: Then I want to bring up the subject - hear me out - of you and me. 0
 During the debate, I asked you a question about bankruptcy. 0
TRUMP: Right. 0
WALLACE: And you - I thought gave a fine answer. 0
TAPE: DONALD TRUMP/Fox Debate/Cleveland/August 6First of all these lenders aren't babies, these are total killers - you know, I mean you're living in a world of the make-believe, Chris (crowd cheers), if you want to know the truth. 0
 (END VIDEO CLIP)TRUMP: I did. 0
 I thought it was my best answer. 0
WALLACE: Then, for about a week, you go after me. 0
 You say blood's pouring out of my eyes, you compare me unfavorably to my father. 0
 And I agree - he's one of a kind. 0
Here's the question: You're running for president. 0
 I mean, we talked to Chris Christie about Bridgegate. 0
 We talked to Carly Fiorina about --TRUMP: Destroying the company. 0
WALLACE: -- about (INAUDIBLE). 0
TRUMP: She destroyed her company. 0
WALLACE: So I guess the question is. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: No, it's not personal. 0
WALLACE: -- are you a little thin-skinned? 0
TRUMP: No, I'm only thin-skinned when somebody says bad things that are false. 0
 For instance, if you hit me about something that's true, all right, the bankruptcy -- I used that as a tool. 0
 I didn't ever file for bankruptcy. 0
 Out of hundreds and hundreds of. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: But it was just a question - itTRUMP: -- four times -- I've used it four times. 0
 But. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: But it was just a question. 0
TRUMP: No, no, I know, but the way it was phrased, the way it was phrased. 0
 I could see the eyes, OK. 0
(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: -- I don't even know what blood coming out of my eyes is? 0
TRUMP: I used it as a tool brilliantly. 0
 And it was phrased incorrectly in my opinion, the question. 0
 And you wouldn't have asked these people about bankruptcy, but you asked me about it. 0
 And I've used it brilliantly. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: I asked Carly Fiorina about Hewlett Packard. 0
TRUMP: And honest I-- well, that's easy. 0
 She destroyed the company, OK. 0
 That one is an easy one. 0
 So, I'm not thin-skinned when something is truthful. 0
 If I did something wrong and you said I did something -- I can handle that and if the press is bad, I -- it's when people hit me when I didn't do anything wrong. 0
 You know, it's like then -- then it's not a question of thin-skinned, I will fight back. 0
WALLACE: You say my father covered you in a much fairer manner. 0
 So I decided to go back and look at your first profile on "60 Minutes. 0
" He talked a lot about your successes, but he also talked about the fact that you were in a controversy then. 0
 The allegation was that you were trying to throw middle class people out of the rent-controlled building so you could create condos for rich people. 0
Here's a clip. 0
TAPE: MIKE WALLACE-DONALD TRUMP/CBS 60 Minutes/1985When they call you arrogant and cruel - those tenants over there - Does that get under your skin? 0
 Trump: No, because you see, I think I'm right and when I think I'm right, nothing bothers me. 0
(END VIDEO CLIP)WALLACE: First of all. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: I've been doing this for a long time. 0
WALLACE: (LAUGHS) First of all, whatever happened to that nice soft-spoken young man? 0
TRUMP: I know. 0
 I know. 0
 I know. 0
 WALLACE: But was that a fair question¦TRUMP: And I'm very (INAUDIBLE). 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: -- for him to ask you? 0
TRUMP: I thought it was fair because it was very controversial at the time and I thought it was fair. 0
 WALLACE: Not to press my luck, but true or false: you, at one point, considered and tried to put homeless people in some of those apartments to force the tenants to move out. 0
TRUMP: No, I talked about doing it and I talked about doing it as a charity. 0
 That's right. 0
 We have a thing called. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: A charity? 0
TRUMP: No, I was thinking about doing that and, you know, I would have done that and it would have been nice and it would have been charitable. 0
 But you have wealthy people living and paying like $200 rent on Fifth Avenue or Central Park South, I think it's unfair and it's been proven to be unfair. 0
WALLACE: Finally, Hillary Clinton testifies before the House Benghazi Committee this week. 0
 What is it you would like to find out about both her role in Benghazi and about her e-mails? 0
TRUMP: I think things will be revealed. 0
 Personally, I think that Hillary was one of the worst, if not the worst, I mean if you look at the record, secretary of States ever, ever in this country. 0
 I think that's the bigger problem that she's got. 0
 I don't think Benghazi is as big a problem for her as her past and what's happened. 0
 The world blew up around her. 0
 You look at the world, it just blew up around her. 0
 Everything went bad, whether it's Libya, whether it's her tenure in Iraq. 0
 And there's been plenty of bad tenures having to do with Iraq because of the length. 0
 Things that happened during her tenure were a disaster. 0
 I think she's. 0
. 0
. 0
WALLACE: but would. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: -- probably going to go down as the worst secretary of State in the history of this country. 0
 And I think that will be -- what I will tell you, that will be what I will be campaigning on. 0
 Now, what's going to happen with Benghazi? 0
 It will be very interesting. 0
 I look forward to it. 0
WALLACE: If you end up as the Republican nominee and she's the Democratic nominee, how would you take her on? 0
TRUMP: I'd take her on tough. 0
 I'd just take her on, on her record. 0
 I'd discuss her record. 0
 I think her record is abysmal. 0
 And I would take her on, on her record. 0
WALLACE: Mr. 0
 Trump. 0
. 0
. 0
TRUMP: Thank you very much. 0
 Thank you, Chris -- A great honor. 0
