 Islamic terrorism is eating large portions of the Mideast. 0
 They’ve become rich. 0
 I’m in competition with them. 0
The other candidates — they went in, they didn’t know the air conditioning didn’t work. 0
 They sweated like dogs. 0
 They didn’t know the room was too big because they didn’t have anybody there. 0
 How are they gonna beat ISIS? 0
 I don’t think it’s gonna happen. 0
Remember, Obamacare really kicks in in ‘16. 0
 2016. 0
 Obama’s gonna be out playing golf. 0
 He might even be on one of my courses. 0
 I would invite him, I actually would say it. 0
 I have the best courses in the world so I’d say, you know what if he wants to. 0
 I have one right next to the White House. 0
 Right on the Potomac. 0
 If he’d like to play, that’s fine. 0
 In fact, I’d love him to leave early and play. 0
 Business mogul Donald Trump gives a speech as he announces his candidacy for the U. 0
S. 0
 presidency at Trump Tower on June 16, 2015 in New York City. 0
  Trump is the 12th Republican who has announced running for the White House. 0
  I’m not saying they’re stupid. 0
 I like China. 0
 I just sold an apartment for $15 million. 0
 Am I supposed to dislike ‘em? 0
 People say you don’t like China. 0
 No, I love them. 0
 But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders. 0
 And we can’t sustain ourselves with that. 0
 It’s like, take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. 0
I know the smartest negotiators in the world. 0
 I know the good ones, I know the bad ones, I know the overrated ones. 0
 You got a lot of them that are overrated. 0
 They’re not good, they think they are, they get good stories, cause the newspapers get buffaloed. 0
 But they’re not good. 0
 But I know the best negotiators in the world. 0
 I’d put them one for each country. 0
 Believe me, folks, we’d do very well. 0
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. 0
I would build a great wall. 0
 And nobody builds walls better than me, believe me. 0
 And I’ll build them very inexpensively. 0
 I will build a great great wall on our southern border and I’ll have Mexico pay for that wall. 0
I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. 0
 And we won’t be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who’s making a horrible and laughable deal, who’s just being tapped along as they make weapons right now and then goes into a bicycle race at 72-years-old and falls and breaks his leg. 0
 I won’t be doing that. 0
 And I promise, I will never be in a bicycle race — that I can tell you. 0
