0.89, Love is the only cause of happiness
0.99, Its nature is all pervasive like space
0.75, Elon Musk
0.25, Out of their evil understanding the spiritually immature (balas) abandon themselves to unmindfulness. The man of understanding guards mindfulness as his chief treasure.
0.75, "Do not abandon yourselves to unmindfulness; have no intimacy with sensuous delights. The mindful person, absorbed in superconscious states, gains ample bliss."
0.75, "As a dweller in the mountains looks down on those who live in the valley, so the spiritually mature person, the hero free from sorrow, having driven out unmindfulness by means of mindfulness, ascends to the Palace of Wisdom and looks down at the sorrowful, spiritually immature multitude (below)."
0.75, "Mindful among the unmindful, wide awake among the sleeping, the man of good understanding forges ahead like a swift horse outdistancing a feeble hack."
.90, The almsman who delights in mindfulness (and) who regards unmindfulness with fear is not liable to regression. He is in the presence of Nirvana.

0.66, "As a fletcher straightens the arrow, so the man of understanding makes straight the trembling unsteady mind, which is difficult to guard (and) difficult to restrain."
0.66, "As a fish threshes from side to side when taken from one abode to another and cast on dry land, so the mind throbs and vibrates (with the strain) as it abandons the domain of Mara."
0.72, "(The mind) is frivolous and difficult to control, alighting on whatever it pleases. It is good to tame the mind. A tamed mind brings happiness."
0.768928571, "The mind is extremely subtle and difficult to grasp, alighting on whatever it pleases. Let the man of understanding keep watch over the mind. A guarded mind brings happiness"
0.508993507, "Far-ranging and lone-faring is the mind, incorporeal and abiding in the cave (of the heart). Those who bring it under control are freed from the bonds of Mara."
0.499937065, "His wisdom does not attain to perfection whose mind is unsettled, who is ignorant of the Real Truth (saddhamma), and whose faith wavers."